 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        1 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
Policy Wordings 
 
Preamble 
Our agreement to insure You is based on Your Proposal to Us, which is the basis of this agreement, and Your payment of the premium. This Policy records 
the entire agreement between Us and sets out what We insure, how We insure it, and what We expect of You and what You can expect of Us. 
 
Types of Policy 
  “ Health Guard-Individual” 
  “ Health Guard-Family Floater” 
 
Policy period:  
 “ Health Guard-Individual”: 1year, 2years or 3years  
 “ Health Guard-Family Floater”:1year, 2years or 3years 
 
Scope of cover: 
The Company hereby agrees to pay in respect of an admissible claim, any or all of the following covers subject to the Sum Insured, limits, terms, conditions 
and definitions, exclusions contained or otherwise expressed in this Policy. 
 
A) COVERAGE 
 
1. In-patient Hospitalisation Treatment 
If You are hospitalized on the advice of a Doctor as defined under policy because of Illness or Accidental Bodily Injury sustained or contracted during the 
Policy Period, then We will pay You, Reasonable and Customary Medical Expenses incurred subject to 
i) Room, Boarding   and Nursing Expenses as provided by the Hospital/Nursing Home without any sublimit. 
ii) If admitted in ICU, we will pay up to actual expenses provided by Hospital. 
iii) Surgeon, Anesthetist, Medical Practitioner, Consultants, Specialists Fees. 
iv) Anesthesia,   Blood,   Oxygen,   Operation   Theatre   Charges,   surgical 
a. appliances,  Medicines  &  Drugs,  Dialysis, Chemotherapy,  Radiotherapy, cost   of  Artificial   Limbs,   cost  of  prosthet ic devices 
implanted during surgical procedure like Pacemaker, orthopedic implants, infra cardiac valve replacements, vascular stents, relevant 
laboratory diagnostic tests,  X-ray and such similar expenses that are medically necessary. 
 
2. Pre-Hospitalisation 
The Medical Expenses incurred during the 60 days immediately before you were Hospitalised, provided that: Such Medical Expenses we re incurred for 
the same illn ess/injury for which subsequent Hospitalisation was required, and We have accepted an inpatient Hospitalisation claim under Inpatient 
Hospitalisation Treatment. (Section A1) 
 
3. Post-Hospitalisation 
The Medical Expenses incurred during the 90 days immediately after You were discharged post Hospitalisation provided that: Such costs are incurred in 
respect of the sam e illness/injury for which the  earlier Hospitalisation was required, and We have accepted an inpatient Hospitalisatio n claim under 
Inpatient Hospitalisation Treatment. (Section A1) 
 
4. Road Ambulance 
We will pay the reasonable cost to a maximum of Rs 20000/ - per policy year incurred on an ambulance offered by a healthcare or ambulance service 
provider for transferring You to the nearest Hospital with adequate emergency facilities for the provision of health services following an Emergency.  
 
We will also reimburse the expenses incurred on an ambulance offered by a healthcare or ambulance service provider for transf erring You from the 
Hospital where you were admitted initially to another hospital with higher medical facilities. 
Claim under this section shall be payable by Us only when: 
i. Such life threatening emergency condition is certified by the Medical Practitioner, and 
ii. We have accepted Your Claim under "In-patient Hospitalisation Treatment" or "Day Care Procedures" section of the Policy. 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy. 
 
This benefit will be applicable annually for policies with term more than 1 year. 
 
5. Day Care Procedures  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        2 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
We will pay you the medical expenses as listed above under Section A1 In-patient Hospitalisation Treatmentfor Day care procedures / Surgeries taken as 
an inpatient in a hospital or day care centre but not in the outpatient department. Indicative list of Day Care Procedures is given in the annexure I of Policy 
wordings. 
 
6. Organ Donor Expenses: 
We will pay expenses towards organ donor’s treatment for harvesting of the donated organ, provided that, 
i. The organ donor is any person whose organ has been made available in accordance and in compliance with THE TRANSPLANTATION OF  
HUMAN ORGANS (AMENDMENT) BILL, 2011and the organ donated is for the use of the Insured Person, and 
ii. We have accepted an inpatient Hospitalisation claim for the insured member under In Patient Hospitalisation Treatment (sectio n A1). 
 
7. Convalescence Benefit: 
In the event of insured hospitalised for a disease/illness/injury for a continuous period exceeding 10  days, We will pay benefit amount of Rs. 5,000 for 
Sum Insured up to Rs. 5lacs and Rs. 7500 for Sum Insured 7.5lacsand above per policy year. 
This benefit will be triggered provided that the hospitalization claim is accepted under Section A1-In Patient Hospitalisation Treatment. 
This benefit will be applicable annually for policies with term more than 1 year. 
 
8. Daily Cash Benefit for Accompanying an Insured Child  
We will pay Daily Cash Benefit of Rs. 500 per day maximum up to 10 days during each policy year for reasonable accommodation expenses in respect of 
one parent/legal guardian, to stay with any minor Ins ured Person (under the Age of 12 ), provided the hospitalization claim is paid  under Section A1 
Inpatient Hospitalisation Treatment. 
This benefit will be applicable annually for policies with term more than 1 year. 
 
9. Sum Insured Reinstatement Benefit: 
If Section A1  Inpatient Hospitalization Treatment Sum Insured and Cumulative Bonus (if any) is exhausted due to claims lodged during the Policy year, 
then it is agreed that 100% of the Sum Insured specified under Inpatient Hospitalization Treatment be reinstated for the particular Policy year provided 
that: 
1. The reinstated Sum Insured will be triggered only after the Inpatient Hospitalization Treatment Sum Insured inclusive of the Cumulative 
Bonus(If applicable) has been completely exhausted during the policy year; 
2. The reinstated Sum Insured can be used for claims made by the Insured Person in respect of the benefits stated in Inpatient 
Hospitalization Treatment.  
3. If the claimed amount is higher than the Balance Sum Insured inclusive of the Cumulative Bonus(If applicable) under the policy, then 
this benefit will not be triggered for such claims 
4. The reinstated Sum Insured would be triggered only for subsequent claims made by the Insured Person.  In case of relapse within 45 
days, this benefit will not trigger 
5. This benefit is applicable only once during each policy year& will not be carried forward to the subsequent policy year/ renewals if the 
benefit is not utilized. 
6. This benefit is applicable only once in life time of Insured Person covered under this policy for claims regarding CANCER OF SPECIFIED 
SEVERITY and KIDNEY FAILURE REQUIRING REGULAR DIALYSIS as defined under the policy. 
7. This benefit will be applicable annually for policies with term more than 1 year. 
8. Additional premium would not be charged for reinstatement of the Sum Insured. 
9. Incase Family Floater policy, Reinstatement of Sum Insured will be available for all Insured Persons in the Policy. 
  
10. Preventive Health Check Up 
At the end of block of every continuous period of 3 policy years during which You have held Our Health Guard policy, You are eligible for a free Preventive 
Health checkup . We will reimburse  the amount equal to  1% of the sum insured max up to Rs . 5000/- for each member  in Individual policy 
during the block of 3 years. This benefit can be availed by proposer & spouse only under Floater Sum Insured Policies. 
You may approach us for the arrangement of the Health Checkup. For the avoidance of doubt, We shall not be liable for any other ancillary or peripheral 
costs or expenses (including but not limited to those for transportation, accommodation or sustenance).  
 
11. Ayurvedic / Homeopathic Hospitalisation Expenses 
If You are Hospitalised for not less than 24 hrs, in an Ayurvedic / Homeopathic Hospital which is a government hospital or in any institute recognized 
by government and/or accredited by Quality Council of India/National Accreditation Board on Health  on the advice of a Doctor because of Illness or 
Accidental Bodily Injury sustained or contracted during the Policy Period then We will pay You: 
 
In-patient Treatment- Medical Expenses for Ayurvedic and Homeopathic treatment: 
 Room rent, boarding expenses 
 Nursing care  
 Consultation fees 
 Medicines, drugs and consumables, 
 Ayurvedic and Homeopathic treatment procedures  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        3 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
Our maximum liability maximum is up to Rs. 20000 per policy year. 
This benefit will be applicable annually for policies with term more than 1 year. 
 
The claim will be admissible under the policy provided that, 
i. The illness/injury requires inpatient admission and the procedure performed on the insured cannot be carried out on out-patient basis  
 
12. Maternity Expenses 
We will pay the Medical Expenses for the delivery of a baby (including caesarean section) and/or expenses related to medically recommended and lawful 
termination of pregnancy, limited to maximum 2 deliveries or termination(s) or either, during the lifetime of the insured per son, provided that,  
i. Our maximum liability per delivery or termination shall be limited to the amount specified in the policy Schedule as per Sum Insured 
opted.  
ii. From Sum insured Rs. 3lacs to Rs. 7.5 lacs is restricted to Rs. 15000 for normal delivery and Rs. 25000 for caesarean section  and from 
Sum insured Rs. 10 lacs to Rs. 50lacs is restricted to Rs. 25000 for normal delivery and Rs. 35000 for caesarean section 
iii. We will pay the Medical Expenses of pre -natal and post-natal hospitalization per delivery or termination up  to the amount stated in 
the policy Schedule. 
iv. Waiting period of 72 months from the date of issuance of the first policy with us, provided that the policy has been renewed 
continuously renewed with us without break for you . Fresh waiting period of 72 months would apply for all the policies which are 
issued with continuity under portability guidelines either from our existing Health Product or any other Non -Health or Standalone 
Health Insurance Company. 
v. We will not cover Ectopic pregnancy under this benefit (although it shall be covered under section A1  In patient Hospitali sation 
Treatment) 
vi. Any complications arising out of or as a consequence of maternity/child birth will be covered within the limit of Sum Insured  
available under this benefit. 
 
 
13. New Born Baby Cover 
Coverage for new born baby will be considered subject to a valid claim being accepted under Maternity Expenses (section A12). We will pay the following 
expenses within the limit of the Sum Insured available under the Maternity Expenses section. 
 
We will pay for, 
i. Medical Expenses towards treatment of your new born baby while you are hospitalised as an inpatient  for delivery for the 
hospitalisation, 
ii. Hospitalisation charges incurred on the new born baby during post birth including any complications shall be covered up to a period of 
90 days from the date of birth and within limit of the Sum Insured under Maternity Expenses without payment of any additional 
premium 
iii. Mandatory Vaccinations of the new born baby up to 90 days, as recommended by the Indian Pediatric Association will be covered under 
the Maternity Expenses Sum Insured. 
 
14. Bariatric Surgery Cover 
If You are hospitalized on the advice of a Doctor because of Conditions mentioned below which required you to undergo Bariatr ic Surgery during the 
Policy period, then We will pay You, Reasonable and Customary Expenses related to Bariatric Surgery  
 
Eligibility: 
For adults aged 18 years or older, presence of severe obesity documented in contemporaneous clinical records, defined as any of the following: 
 
BMI greater than and equal to 40in conjunctions with any of the following severe comorbidities: 
1. Coronary heart disease; or 
2. Medically refractory hypertension (blood pressure greater than 140 mm Hg systolic and/or 90 mm Hg diastolic despite concurren t use 
of 3 anti-hypertensive agents of different classes); or 
3. Type 2 diabetes mellitus 
 
 
Special Conditions applicable to Bariatric Surgery Cover 
• This benefit is subject to a waiting period of 36 months from the date of first commencement of this policy and continuous renewal thereof 
with the Company. Fresh waiting period of 36 months would apply for all the policies which are issued with continuity under portability 
guidelines either from our existing Health Product or any other Non-Health or Standalone Health Insurance Company.. 
• Policies which are issued with continuity under portability guidelines either from our existing Health Product or any other Non-Health or 
Standalone Health Insurance Company will have to wait for 36 months from issuance of Health Guard policy to avail this benefit. 
• Our maximum liability will be restricted to 50% of Sum insured maximum up to Rs. 5lac.  
• Bariatric surgery performed for Cosmetic reasons is excluded.  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        4 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
• The indication for the procedure should be found appropriate by two qualified surgeons and the insured person shall obtain prior approval 
for cashless treatment from the Company. 
 
B) Definitions 
 
1. Accident, Accidental – 
An accident is a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means. 
 
2. Act of Terrorism:-  
Whoever 
a. With intent to threaten the unity, integrity, security or sovereignty of India or to strike terror in the people or any section of the people 
does any act or thing by using bombs, dynamite or other explosive substances or inflammable substances or firearms or other l ethal 
weapons or poisons or noxious  gases or other chemicals or by any other substances (whether biological or otherwise) of a hazardous 
nature or by any other means whatsoever, in such a manner as to cause or likely to cause, death of or injuries to any person or persons or 
loss of or damage to or destruction of property or disruption of any supplies or services essential to the life of the community or causes 
damage or destruction of any property or equipment used or intended to be used for the defense of India or in connection with any other 
purposes of the Government of India, any state government or any of their agencies or detains any person and threatens to kil l or injure 
such person in order to compel the Government or any other person to do or abstain from doing any act 
b. Is or continues to be a member of an association declared unlawful under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967, (37 of 1967), or 
voluntarily does an act aiding or promoting in any manner the objects of such association and in either case is in possession  of any 
unlicensed firearms, ammunition, explosives or other instrument or substances capable of causing mass destruction and commits any act 
resulting in loss of human life or grievous injury to any person or causes significant damage to any property, commits a terrorist act. 
 
3. Any one illness 
Any one illness means continuous Period of illness and it includes relapse within 45 days from the date of last consultation with the 
Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment may have been taken. 
 
4. AYUSH Hospital: 
An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures and interventions are carried out by 
AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following: 
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or 
b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government/Central Council of Indian Medicine/Central 
Council for Homeopathy; or 
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any recognized system of medicine, registered with the 
local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and  must 
comply with all the following criterion: 
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds; 
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; 
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be  
carried out; 
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company’s authorized representative. 
 
5. AYUSH Day Care Centre: 
AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Poly clinic 
or any such health centre which is registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable and having facilities for carrying out treatment 
procedures and medical or surgical/para-surgical interventions or both under the supervision of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner (s) 
on day care basis without in-patient services and must comply with all the following criterion: 
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge; 
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be 
carried out; 
iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company’s authorized representative  
 
6. Bajaj Allianz Network Hospitals / Network Hospitals 
Bajaj Allianz Network Hospitals / Network Hospitals means the Hospitals which have been   empanelled by Us as per the latest version of the 
schedule of Hospitals maintained by Us,  which is available to You  on request. For updated list please visit our website. 
 
7. Bajaj Allianz Diagnostic Centre 
Bajaj Allianz Diagnostic Centre means the diagnostic centers which have been empanelled by us as per the latest version of the schedule of 
diagnostic centers maintained by Us, which is available to You on request. 
 
8. Bariatric surgery:  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        5 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
means Surgery on the stomach and/or intestines to help a person with extreme obesity to lose weight. Bariatric surgery is an option for people 
who have a body mass index (BMI) above 40. Surgery is also an option for people with a body mass index between 35 and 40 who have health 
problems like type 2 diabetes or heart disease. 
 
9. Cancer of Specified Severity 
A malignant tumor characterized by the uncontrolled growth & spread of malignant cells with invasion &  destruction of normal tissues. This 
diagnosis must be supported by histological evidence of malignancy & confirmed by a pathologist.  The term cancer includes le ukemia, 
lymphoma and sarcoma.  
The following are excluded –  
 Tumors showing the malignant changes of carcinoma  in  situ  &  tumors  which  are  histological  described  as  pre - malignant or 
non invasive, including but not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of  breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN -2 & CIN-3.  
 Any skin cancer other than invasive malignant melanoma   
 All tumours of the prostate unless histological classified as having a Gleason score greater than 6 or having progressed to a t least 
clinical TNM classification T2N0M0. 
 Papillary micro  -  carcinoma  of  the  thyroid  less  than  1  cm  in  diameter   
 Chronic lymphocyctic leukemia less than RAI stage 3   
 Micro carcinoma of the bladder  
 All tumors in the presence of HIV infection. 
 
10. Cashless facility 
"Cashless facility” means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments, of the costs of treatment undergone by the 
insured in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, are directly made to the network provider by the insurer to the e xtent pre-
authorization approved. 
 
11. Co-Payment 
A co-payment is a cost -sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the policyholder/insured will bear a specified 
percentage of the admissible claim amount. A co-payment does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
 
12. Condition Precedent 
Condition Precedent shall mean a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer's liability under the policy is conditional upon.  
 
13. Congenital Anomaly 
Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with reference to f orm, structure or position. 
a. Internal Congenital Anomaly- Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body 
b. External Congenital Anomaly- Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body 
 
14. Contribution 
Contribution is essentially the right of an insurer to call upon other insurers liable to the same insured to share the cost of an indemnity claim 
on a ratable proportion of Sum Insured. This clause shall not apply to any Benefit offered on fixed benefit basis. 
 
15. Cumulative Bonus 
Cumulative Bonus shall mean any increase in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer without an associated increase in premium.  
 
16. Day care centre 
A day care centre means any institution established for day care treatment of illness and / or injuries or a medical set -up within a hospital and 
which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and q ualified medical 
practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criteria a s under:- has qualified nursing staff under its employment has qualified medical 
practitioner (s) in charge has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out - maintains daily records 
of patients and will make these accessible to the Insurance company’s authorized personnel. 
 
17. Day Care Treatment 
Day care treatment refers to medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure which is: 
i. undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a hospital/day care centre in less than 24 hrs because of technological advancement, 
and 
ii. Which would have otherwise required a hospitalization of more than 24 hours. 
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. 
 
18. Dental Treatment 
Dental treatment is treatment carried out by a dental practitioner including examinations, fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and 
surgery excluding any form of cosmetic surgery/implants. 
 
19. Dependent child 
A child is considered a dependent for insurance purposes until his 35th birthday (even if not enrolled in an educational institution) provided he 
is financially dependent, on the proposal.  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        6 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
20. Disclosure to information norm 
The Policy shall be void and all premium paid hereon shall be forfeited to the Company, in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or 
non-disclosure of any material fact. 
 
21. Emergency Care 
Emergency care means management for a severe illness or injury which results in symptoms which occur suddenly and unexpectedl y, and 
requires immediate care by a medical practitioner to prevent death or serious long term impairment of the insured person’s health. 
 
22. Family  
For the purpose of Individual Sum Insured policy - includes the insured; his/her lawfully wedded  spouse and dependent children, parents, 
Sister, Brother, In laws, Aunt, Uncle, Grandchildren. 
For the purpose of Family Floater- includes the insured; his/her lawfully wedded spouse and dependent children. For Parents separate floater 
policy can be taken. 
 
23. Grace Period 
Grace period means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date during which a payment can be made  to renew 
or continue a policy in force without loss of continuity benefits such as waiting periods and coverage of pre existing di seases. Coverage is not 
available for the period for which no premium is received. 
 
24. Hospital  
A hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment of illness and/or injuries and which has been 
registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the 
enactments specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all minimum criteria as under:  
--has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock; 
--has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 in-patient beds in all other places; 
--has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock; 
--has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out; 
--maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the insurance company’s authorized personnel. 
 
25. Hospitalisation 
Means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 In patient Care consecutive hours except for specified procedures/ treatments, 
where such admission could be for a period of less than 24consecutive hours. 
 
26. Illness 
Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal physiological function which manifests 
itself during the Policy Period and requires medical treatment. 
a. Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to return the 
person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the disease/illness/injury which leads to full recovery.  
b. Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the following 
characteristics:—it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups, and /or tests—it needs 
ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms— it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it—it 
continues indefinitely—it comes back or is likely to come back. 
 
27. Inpatient Care 
Inpatient care means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 24 hours for a covered event. 
 
28. Injury/ Bodily Injury 
Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused by external, violent and  visible and 
evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner.  
 
29. Intensive Care Unit 
Intensive care unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the constant supervision of a dedi cated medical 
practitioner(s), and which is specially equippe d for the continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or 
require life support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary 
and other wards. 
 
30. Kidney Failure Requiring Regular Dialysis   
End  stage  renal  disease  presenting  as  chronic  irreversible  failure  of  both kidneys  to  function,  as  a  result  of  which  either  regular  renal  
dialysis (hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantation is carried  out.  Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a Specialist 
Consultant.  
 
31. Limit of Indemnity  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        7 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
Limit of Indemnity represents Our maximum liability to make payment for each and every claim per person and collectively for  all persons 
mentioned in the Schedule during the policy period and in the aggregate for the person(s) named in the schedule during the policy period, and 
means the amount stated in the Schedule against each Cover. 
 
32. Maternity expense /  treatment shall include the following Medical treatment Expenses: 
Medical Expenses for a delivery (including  complicated  deliveries  and caesarean sections)  incurred during Hospitalization ; The  lawful 
medical  termination of  pregnancy  during  the Policy Period  limi ted to  2  deliveries  or  terminations  or  either  during  the  lifetime  of   the  
Insured Person;  
Pre-natal and post-natal Medical Expenses for delivery or termination. 
 
33. New Born Baby 
Newborn baby means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged between 1 day and 90 days, both days inclusive.  
 
34. Medical Advise 
Any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issue of any prescription or repeat prescription.  
 
35. Medical expenses 
Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually incurred for medical treatment on account of 
Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable if the  Insured Person 
had not been insured and no more than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment.  
 
36. Medical Practitioner/ Physician/ Doctor: 
A Medical Practitioner is a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any State or Medical Council of India or Council 
for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to prac tice medicine 
within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of license. 
 
37. Medically Necessary 
Medically necessary treatment is defined as any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in hospital or part of a stay in hospit al which 
- is required for the medical management of the illness or injury suffered by the insured; 
- must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical care in scope, duration, or intensity;  
- must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner, 
- must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or by the medical community in India. 
 
38. Migration-  
Migration means, the right accorded to health insurance policyholders (including all members under family cover and members under famil y 
cover and members of group health insurance policy), to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, 
with the same insurer 
 
39. Named Insured/ Insured:  
Insured means the persons, or his Family members, named in the Schedule provided that an Insured or his Family Mem bers has attained the 
age of 3 months and is not older than 65 years of age at the commencement of the Policy Period. 
 
40. Non- Network 
Any hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of the network. 
 
41. Notification of Claim 
Notification of claim is the process of notifying a claim to the insurer or TPA by specifying the timelines as well as the address / telephon e 
number to which it should be notified. 
 
42. OPD treatment 
OPD treatment is one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or ass ociated facility like a consultation room for diagnosis and treatment 
based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is not admitted as a day care or in-patient. 
 
43. Obesity means abnormal or excessive fat accumulation that may impair health. Obesity is measured in Body Mass Index. 
Body mass index (BMI) is a simple index of weight -for-height that is commonly used to classify overweight and obesity in adults. It is defined 
as a person's weight in kilograms divided by the square of his height in meters (kg/m2). 
The WHO definition is: 
 BMI greater than or equal to 25 is overweight  
 BMI greater than or equal to 30 is obesity 
 
44. Portability 
Portability means the right accorded to an individual health insurance policyholder (including all members under family cover ) to transfer the 
credit gained for pre-existing conditions and time-bound exclusions from one insurer to another. . 
  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        8 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
45. Pre-Existing Disease 
means any condition, ailment or injury or disease 
a. That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement. 
Or 
b. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of 
the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement. 
 
46. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses 
Medical Expenses incurred immediately before the Insured Person is Hospitalised, provided that: 
 Such  Medical  Expenses  are  incurred  for  the  same  condition  for  which  the Insured Person’s Hospitalisation was requi red,  and 
 The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company. 
 
47. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses 
Medical  Expenses  incurred  immediately  after  the  Insured  Person  is  Hospitalised, provided that: 
 Such  Medical  Expenses  are  incurred  for  the  same  condition  for  which  the Insured Person’s Hospitalisation was required,  and 
 The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company. 
 
48. Qualified Nurse 
Qualified nurse is a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing Council of any state in India. 
 
49. Reasonable and Customary Charges 
Reasonable and Customary charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard charges for the specific provider and 
consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of the illness / 
injury involved  
 
50. Room rent 
Means the amount charged by a hospital for the occupancy of a bed on per day (24 hours) basis and shall include associated me dical expenses. 
 
51. Renewal 
Renewal defines the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a provision of grace perio d for treating 
the renewal continuous for the purpose of all waiting periods. 
 
52. Surgery 
Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of an illness or injury, correction of 
deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief of suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a hospital  or day care centre by 
a medical practitioner 
 
53. Schedule means the schedule and any annexure to it. 
 
54. Unproven/Experimental treatment 
Unproven/Experimental treatment is treatment, including drug Experimental therapy, which is not based on established medical practice in 
India, is treatment experimental or unproven. 
 
55. You, Your, Yourself, Your Family named in the schedule means the person or persons that We insure as set out in the Schedule. 
 
56.  We, Our, Ours means the Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited. 
 
C) EXCLUSIONS UNDER THE POLICY 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment for any claim directly or indirectly caused by, based on, arising out of or attrib utable to any of the 
following: 
 
I. Waiting Period 
 
1. Pre-existing Diseases waiting period (Excl01) 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be excluded until the expiry of 36 months 
of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Health Guard Policy with us.  
b) In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase. 
c) If the Insured is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health I nsurance) 
Regulations then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
d) Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of 36 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the same being declared at the time of 
application and accepted by Us.  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        9 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
 
2. Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Excl02) 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the expiry of 24 mon ths of continuous 
coverage after the date of inception of the first Health Guard Policy with Us. Th is exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an 
accident.  
b) In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase.  
c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting pe riod specified for Pre-Existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting 
periods shall apply. 
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared and accepted without a s pecific exclusion. 
e) If the Insured is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting 
period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
f) List of specific diseases/procedures is as below 
 
1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers 2. Cataracts, 
3. Any type of fistula 4. Macular Degeneration 
5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy 6. Hernia of all types 
7. All types of sinuses 8. Fissure in ano 
9. Haemorrhoids, piles 10. Hydrocele 
11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding 12. Fibromyoma 
13. Endometriosis 14. Hysterectomy 
15. Uterine Prolapse 16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems 
17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/ adenoids/ 
paranasal sinuses 
18. Surgery on all internal or external tumours/cysts/ 
nodules/polyps of any kind including breast lumps.  
19. Mental Illness 20. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecystitis 
21. Pancreatitis 22. All forms of Cirrhosis 
23. Gout and rheumatism 24. Tonsilitis 
25. Surgery for varicose veins and varicose 
ulcers 26. Chronic Kidney Disease 
27. Alzheimer’s Disease 
 
3. Any Medical Expenses incurred during the first three consecutive annual periods during which You have the benefit of a Health  Guard Policy with 
Us in connection with:  
a. Joint replacement surgery, 
b. Surgery for prolapsed inter vertebral disc (unless necessitated due to an accident) 
c. Surgery to correct deviated nasal septum  
d. Hypertrophied turbinate 
e. Congenital internal diseases or anomalies  
f. Treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error recommended by Ophthalmologist for medical reasons.  
g. Parkinson’s Disease 
h. Bariatric Surgery 
 
4. 30-day waiting period (Excl03) 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first Policy commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising 
due to an accident, provided the same are covered. 
b) This exclusion shall not, however apply if the Insured has Continuous Coverage for more than twelve months.  
The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event of granting higher Sum Insured  subsequently. 
 
Waiting Period for Maternity Expenses 
Any treatment arising from or traceable to pregnancy, child birth including cesarean section and/or any treatment related to pre and postnatal care 
and complications arising out of Pregnancy and Childbirth until  72  months co ntinuous period has elapsed since the inception of the first Health 
Guard Policy with US. However this exclusion will not apply to Ectopic Pregnancy proved by diagnostic means and certified to be life threatening by 
the attending medical practitioner. 
 
   
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        10 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
General Exclusions 
 
1. Any dental treatment that comprises of cosmetic surgery, dentures, dental prosthesis, dental implants, orthodontics, surgery of any kind unless as a 
result of Accidental Bodily Injury to natural teeth and also requiring hospitalization. 
2. Medical expenses where Inpatient care is not warranted and does not require supervision of qualified nursing staff and qualified medical practitioner 
round the clock 
3. War, invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil war, commotion, unrest, rebellion, revolution, insurrection, 
military or usurped power or confiscation or nationalization or requisition of or damage by or under the order of any governm ent or public local 
authority. 
Any Medical expenses incurred due to Act of Terrorism will be covered under the Policy. 
4. Investigation & Evaluation (Excl04) 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded even if the same requir es confinement 
at a Hospital. 
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment are excluded.  
5. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Excl05) 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also includes: 
i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, 
moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons. 
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address medical, physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs. 
6. Obesity/Weight Control (Excl06) 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
1) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor 
2) The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols 
3) The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
4) Body Mass Index (BMI); 
a) greater than or equal to 40 or 
b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following failure of less invasive methods 
of weight loss: 
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
ii. Coronary heart disease 
iii. Severe Sleep Apnea 
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
7. Change-of-gender treatments (Excl07) 
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those of the oppos ite sex. 
8. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Excl08) 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer 
or as part of medically necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be consi dered a medical 
necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
9. The cost of spectacles, contact lenses, hearing aids, crutches, dentures, artificial teeth and all other external appliances and/or devices whether for 
diagnosis or treatment except for Cost   of  Artificial   Limbs,   cost  of  p rosthetic devices implanted during surgical procedure like Pacemaker, 
orthopedic implants, infra cardiac valve replacements, vascular stents etc.  
10. Breach of law (Excl10) 
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal 
intent. 
11. Excluded Providers (Excl11) 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other provider specifically exclude d by the Insurer and 
disclosed in its website / notified to the policyholders are not admissible.  However, in case of life threatening situations or following an ac cident, 
expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. 
12. Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences thereof. (Excl12) 
13. Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private beds registered as a nurs ing home attached to 
such establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. (Excl13) 
14. Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including but not limited to Vitamins, mineral s and organic 
substances unless prescribed by a medical practitioner as part of hospitalization claim or day care procedure. (Excl14) 
15. Refractive Error (Excl15) 
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres. 
16. Unproven Treatments (Excl16)  
Expenses related to any unp roven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, 
procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to support their effectiveness. 
17. Sterility and Infertility (Excl17) 
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: 
a) Any type of contraception, sterilization 
b) Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GI FT, ICSI 
c) Gestational Surrogacy 
d) Reversal of sterilization  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        11 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
18. External medical equipment of any kind used at home as post Hospitalization care including cost of instrument used in the treatment of Sleep Apnoea 
Syndrome (C.P.A.P), Continuous Peritoneal Ambulatory Dialysis (C.P.A.D) and Oxygen concentrator for Bronchial Asthmatic condition. 
19. Congenital external diseases or defects or anomalies, growth hormone therapy, stem cell implantation or surgery except for Hematopoietic stem cells 
for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions. 
20. Intentional self-injury (including but not limited to the use or misuse of any intoxicating drugs or alcohol) 
21. Vaccination or inoculation unless forming a part of post bite treatment or if medically necessary and forming a part of treat ment recommended by 
the treating Medical practitioner.  
22. All non-medical Items as per Annexure II 
23. Circumcision unless required for the treatment of Illness or Accidental bodily injury, 
24. Any treatment received outside India is not covered under this Policy. 
 
D) Conditions 
 
1. Disclosure of information 
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis description 
or non-disclosure of any material fact by the policyholder. 
 
2. Conditions Precedent 
Where this Policy requires You to do or not to do something, then the complete satisfaction of that requirement by You or someone claiming 
on Your behalf is a precondition to any obligation We have under this Policy. If You or someone claiming on Your behalf fails to completely 
satisfy that requirement, then We may refuse to consider Your claim.  
 
3. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability 
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the Insured Person for the Company to make any payment for claim(s) arising 
under the policy. 
 
4. Insured 
Only those persons named as the insured in the Schedule shall be covered under this Policy. Cover under this Policy shall be withdrawn 
from any insured member upon such insured member giving 14 days written notice to be received by Us. 
 
5. Communications 
Any communication meant for Us must be in writing and be delivered to Our address shown in the Schedule. Any communication meant 
for You will be sent by Us to Your address shown in the Schedule. 
 
6. Premium Payment in Instalments (Wherever applicable) 
If the insured person has opted for Payment of Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Annual (for long term polices only), Half Yearly, Quarterly or 
Monthly, as mentioned in the policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, the following Conditions shall apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary 
elsewhere in the policy) 
i. Grace Period of 15 days would be given to pay the instalment premium due for the policy. 
ii. During such grace period, coverage will not be available from the due date of instalment premium till the date of receipt of premium 
by Company. 
iii. The insured person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the “Waiting Periods”, “Specific Waiting Periods” in  the 
event of payment of premium within the stipulated grace Period. 
iv. No interest will be charged If the instalment premium is not paid on due date. 
v. In case of instalment premium due not received within the grace period, the policy will get cancelled. 
vi. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become due and payable. 
vii. The company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending installments from the claim amount due under the policy 
 
 
7. Moratorium Period: After completion of eight continuous years under this policy no look back would be applied. This period of eight 
years is called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable for the sums insured of the first policy and subsequently 
completion of eight continuous years would be applicable from date of enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits . After 
the expiry of Moratorium Period no claim under this policy shall be contestable except for proven fraud and permanent exclusions 
specified in the policy contract. The policies would however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments, as per the policy. 
 
8. Claim Settlement (provision for Penal interest) 
i. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary doc ument. 
ii. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest t o the policyholder from the date of receipt of 
last necessary document to the date of payment of claim at a rate 2o/o above the bank rate. 
iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the Company, it shall initiate and complete such 
investigation at the earliest, in any case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document - ln such cases, the 
Company shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document.  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        12 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
iv. ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the policyholder at a rate 2% abov e the bank 
rate from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim. 
 
9. Claims Procedure  
All Claims will be settled by In house claims settlement team of the company and no TPA is engaged. 
 
If You meet with any Accidental Bodily Injury or suffer an Illness that may result in a claim, then as a condition precedent to Our 
liability, You must comply with the following: 
 
A. Cashless Claims Procedure:  
Cashless treatment is only available at Network Hospit als. In order to avail of cashless treatment, the following procedure must be 
followed by You:  
i. For planned treatment or Hospitalization, prior to taking treatment and/or incurring Medical Expenses at a Network Hospital, 
You or Your representative must intimate Us 48 hours before the planned Hospitalization and request pre-authorisation by way of 
the written form. 
ii. After considering Your request and after obtaining any further information or documentation We have sought, We may, if satisfied, 
send You or the Network Hospital, an authorisation letter. The authorisation letter, the ID card issued to You along with this Policy 
and any other information or documentation that We have specified must be produced to the Network  Hospital identified in the 
pre-authorization letter at the time of Your admission to the same. 
iii. If the procedure above is followed, You will not be required to directly pay for the bill amount in the Network  Hospital that We 
are liable under Section A1In-Patient Hospitalisation Treatment above and the original bills and evidence of treatment in respect 
of the same shall be left with the Network Hospital. Pre-authorisation does not guarantee that all costs and expenses will be covered. 
We reserve the right to review each claim for Medical Expen ses and accordingly coverage will be determined according to the 
terms and conditions of this Policy.  
iv. In case any treatment or procedure is to be taken on an Emergency basis, You or Your representative must intimate Us in writi ng 
immediately within 24 hours of hospitalization. 
 
10. Reimbursement Claims Procedure:  
If Pre-authorisation as per Cashless Claims Procedure above is denied by Us or if treatment is taken in a Hospital other than a Network 
Hospital or if You do not wish to avail cashless facility, then: 
i. You or someone claiming on Your behalf must inform Us in writing immediately within 48 hours of hospitalization in cas e of emergency 
hospitalization and 48 hours prior to hospitalization in case of planned hospitalization 
ii. You must immediately consult a Doctor and follow the advice and treatment that he recommends. 
iii. You must take reasonable steps or measures to minimize the quantum of any claim that may be made under this Policy. 
iv. You must have Yourself examined by Our medical advisors if We ask for this, and as often as We consider this to be necessary at our cost. 
v. You or someone claiming on Your behalf must promptly and in any event wi thin 30 days of   discharge from a Hospital give Us the 
documentation as listed out in greater detail below and other information We ask for to investigate the claim or Our obligati on to make 
payment for it. 
vi. In the event of the death of the insured person, someone claiming on his behalf must inform Us in writing immediately and send Us a copy 
of the post mortem report (if any) within 30 days* 
vii. If the original documents are submitted with the co-insurer, the Xerox copies attested by the co-insurer should be submitted  
 
*Note: In case You are claiming for the same event under an indemnity based policy of another insurer and are required to sub mit the 
original documents related to Your treatment with that particular insurer, then You may provide Us with the atte sted Xerox copies of 
such documents along with a declaration from the particular insurer specifying the availability of the original copies of the  specified 
treatment documents with it.  
 
**Note: Waiver of conditions (i) and (vi) may be considered in extreme cases of hardship where it is proved to Our satisfaction that under 
the circumstances in which You were placed, it was not possible for You or any other person to give notice or file claim with in the 
prescribed time limit. 
 
List of Claim documents: 
 Claim form with NEFT details & cancelled cheque duly signed by Insured  
 Original/Attested copies of Discharge Summary / Discharge Certificate / Death Summary with Surgical & anesthetics notes  
 Attested copies of Indoor case papers  
 Original/Attested copies Final Hospital Bill with break up of surgical charges, surgeon’s fees, OT charges etc 
 Original Paid Receipt against the final Hospital Bill.  
 Original bills towards Investigations done / Laboratory Bills.  
 Original/Attested copies of Investigation Reports against Investigations done.  
 Original bills and receipts paid for the transportation from Registered Ambulance Service Provider. Treating Doctor certifica te to transfer the 
Injured person to a higher medical centre for further treatment (if Applicable). 
 Cashless settlement letter or other company settlement letter   
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        13 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
 First consultation letter for the current ailment. 
 In case of implant surgery, invoice & sticker.  
 
Please send the documents on below address  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company 
2nd Floor, Bajaj Finserv Building, 
Behind Weikfield IT park, 
Off Nagar Road, Viman Nagar 
Pune 411014| Toll free: 1800-103-2529, 1800-22-5858 
 
11. Paying a Claim  
i. You agree that We need only make payment when You or someone claiming on Your behalf has provided Us with necessary 
documentation and information.  
ii. If the insurer, for any reasons decides to reject the claim under the policy the reasons regarding the rejection shall be communicated to the 
insured in writing within 30 days of the receipt of documents. The insured may take recourse to the Grievance Redressal procedure stated 
under policy. 
 
12. Basis of Claims Payment 
i. If You suffer a relapse within 45 days of the date when You last obtained medical treatment or   consulted a Doctor and for w hich 
a claim has been made, then such relapse shall be deemed to be part of the same claim. 
ii. If opted voluntarily by you, You  shall bear 10% / 20% of co -payment for each and every claim payable under the Inpatient 
Hospitalization Treatment section and Our liability, if any, shall only be in excess of that sum.  
iii. The day care pr ocedures listed are subject to the exclusions, terms and conditions of the policy and will not be treated as 
independent coverage under the policy. 
iv. Our obligation to make payment in respect of surgeries for cataracts (after the expiry of the 24 months  period referred to in 
Exclusion C2) above, shall be restricted to 20% of the Sum insured for each eye, subject to maximum of Rs 1,00,000/ - for each of 
You. 
v. Our obligation to make payment in respect of Bariatric Surgery (after the expiry of the 36 months period referred to in Exclusion C3) above, 
shall be restricted to 50% of the Sum insured, subject to maximum of Rs 5lac.  
vi. We shall make payment in Indian Rupees only. 
vii. If claim event falls within two policy periods the claims shall be administered taking into consideration the available sum insured 
in the two policy periods, including the deductibles (if any) for each policy period. The claim amount to be payable shall be reduced 
up to the extent of the premium to be received for renewal/due date of premium of this policy, if the same is not received earlier. 
viii. Our obligation to make payment in respect of illness/surgeries listed below shall be restricted to : 
Coverages Sub-limit 
Mental Illness 25% of Sum Insured or 2 Lac whichever is lower 
Modern Treatment  Methods and Advancement in Technologies (as 
per list in Annexure III) 
50% of Sum Insured or 5 Lacs whichever is lower 
 
13. Cumulative Bonus:  
If You renew Your  “ Health Guard” with Us without any break and there has been no claim in the preceding year, We will increase the Limit of 
Indemnity by 10% of base sum insured per annum, but: 
i. The maximum cumulative increase in the Limit of Indemnity will be limited to 10 years and 100% of base sum insured of Your first “Health 
Guard Policy” with Us. 
ii. This clause does not alter the annual character of this insurance  
iii. If a claim is made in any yea r where a cumulative increase has been applied, then the increased Limit of Indemnity in the policy period of 
the subsequent “Health Guard Policy” shall be reduced by 10%, save that the limit of indemnity applicable to Your first “Heal th Guard 
Policy” with Us shall be preserved. 
 
14. Complete Discharge- 
Any payment to the policyholder, insured person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representative or assignee or to the H ospital, as the case 
may be, for any benefit under the policy shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that amount for the 
particular claim. 
 
15. Fraud 
i. If any claim made by the Insured beneficiary, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is made  or used in 
support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the Insured beneficiary or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obta in 
any benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited. 
ii. Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent later shall be repaid by all 
recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and severally liable for such repaymen t to the 
insurer.  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        14 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
iii. For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed by the Insured beneficiary or by his agent 
or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the Insured beneficiary, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the 
insurer to issue an insurance policy: 
a. the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured beneficiary does not believe to be true; 
b. the active concealment of a fact by the Insured beneficiary having knowledge or belief of the fact; 
c. any other act fitted to deceive; and 
d. any such actor omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent 
iv. The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if the Insured benefic iary / 
beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to 
suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer.  
 
16. Multiple Policies 
a. In case of multiple policies taken by an insured person during a period from one or more insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the in sured 
person shall have the right to require a settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the insurer chosen by 
the insured person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to  the terms of the chosen 
policy. 
b. Insured person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims un der this policy for the amounts disallowed under any 
other policy / policies even if the sum insured is not exhausted. Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and 
conditions of this policy. 
c. If the amount to be claimed exc eeds the sum insured under a single policy, the insured person shall have the right to choose insurer  from 
whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount. 
d. Where an insured person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity basis, the insured person shall only be 
indemnified the treatment costs in accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen policy. 
 
17. Entry Age and Renewal Age 
 
Cover Member Eligible Entry Age Renewal  
 “Health Guard” 
Self, Spouse, Parents, Sister, Brother, In 
laws, Aunt, Uncle. 18 years to 65 years  lifetime renewals** 
Dependent Children, Grandchildren. 3 months to 30 years 35 Years* 
 
* After the completion of maximum renewal age of dependent children, the policy would be renewed for lifetime, subject to Separate proposal 
form should be submitted to us at the time of renewal with the insured member as proposer and subsequently the policy should be renewed 
annually with us and within the Grace period of 30 days from date of Expiry. Continuity for all the waiting periods shall be extended in the new 
policy. 
** Subject to policy is renewed annually with us within the Grace period of 30 days from date of Expiry 
 
Eligibility: 
 Indian nationals residing in India would be considered for this policy. 
 This policy can be opted by Non-Resident Indians also; however the policy will be issued during their stay in India& premium paid in Indian 
currency & by Indian Account only  
 Copy of any one of the below KYC documents will have to be submitted  along with the Proposal form: Voters ID Card, Driving License, 
Passport, PAN Card 
 Sum Insured for Self (i.e. Proposer) cannot be less than any of his/her family members.  
 
18. Renewal 
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the insured person. 
a. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under obligation to give any notice for 
renewal. 
b. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or claims in the preceding policy years. 
c. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before the end of the policy period.  
d. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace Period of 30 days to maintain 
continuity of benefits without break in policy. Coverage is not available during the grace period. 
e. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. 
 
19. Cancellation 
The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15days’ written notice and in such an event, the Company shall refund premium for the 
unexpired policy period as detailed below. 
Cancellation grid for premium received on annual basis or full premium received at policy inception are as under 
 
Period in Risk 
Premium Refund 
Policy Period 
1 Year Policy Period 2 Year Policy Period 3 
Year  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        15 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
Within 15 Days As per Free Look Period Condition 
Exceeding 15  days but less than or equal to  3 month 65.00% 75.00% 80.00% 
Exceeding 3 months but less than or equal to 6 months 50.00% 65.00% 75.00% 
Exceeding 6 months but less than or equal to 12 months 25.00% 45.00% 60.00% 
Exceeding 12 months but less than or equal to 15 months 0.00% 30.00% 50.00% 
Exceeding 15 months but less than or equal to 18 months 0.00% 20.00% 45.00% 
Exceeding 18 months but less than or equal to 24 months 0.00% 0.00% 30.00% 
Exceeding 24 months but less than or equal to 27 months 0.00% 0.00% 20.00% 
Exceeding 27 months but less than or equal to 30 months 0.00% 0.00% 15.00% 
Exceeding 30 months but less than or equal to 36 months 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 
 
 
Cancellation grid for premium received on instalment basis- 
The premium will be refunded as per the below table: 
 
Period in Risk (From Latest instalment date) % of Monthly Premium % of Quarterly Premium % of Half Yearly Premium 
Upto 15 days from 1st Instalment Date As per Free Look Period Condition 
Exceeding 15 days but less than or equal to 3 months 
No Refund 
30% 
Exceeding 3 months but less than or equal to 6 months 0% 
 
Note: 
 The first slab of Number of days “within 15 days” in above table is applicable only in case of new business.  
 In case of renewal policies, period is risk “Exceeding 15 days but less than  3 months” should be read as “within 3 months”.  
For the avoidance of  doubt, the Company shall remain liable for any claim that was made prior to the date upon which the Policy is cancelled 
except in cases such cancellation is on account of Fraud, if any false/fraudulent claim is made by Insured or any one on beha lf of Insured, mis-
representation or non-disclosure of material facts or non-co-operation by the Insured. 
 
 
20. Free Look Period  
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on renewals or at the time of 
porting/migrating the policy. 
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days from date of receipt of the policy document to review th e terms and 
conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not acceptable. 
If the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to 
i. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the insured person and the stamp 
duty charges or 
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by the insured person, a deduction towards 
the proportionate risk premium for period of cover or 
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium commensurate with the insurance coverage 
during such period; 
 
21. Portability Conditions  
The Insured beneficiary will have the option to port the policy to other insurers by applying to such insurer to port the ent ire policy along with 
all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines 
related to portability. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any he alth insurance 
policy with an Indian General/Health insurer, the proposed Insured beneficiary will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as 
per IRDAI guidelines on portability. 
For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/Circulars_List.aspx?mid=3.2.3  
 
22. Endorsements 
This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be changed b y anyone (including an insurance agent or 
broker) except Us. Any change that We make will be evidenced by a written endorsement signed and stamped by Us.  
 
23. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the policy Including the premium rates- 
The Company, prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including the premium rates. The insured person shall be 
notified three months before the changes are effected. 
 
24. Migration of policy: 
The Insured beneficiary will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance products/plans offered by the co mpany by 
applying for migration of the policy atleast 30 days before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If such person is  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        16 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance product/plan offered by the  
company, the Insured beneficiary will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidel ines on migration. 
For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link  
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/Circulars_List.aspx?mid=3.2.3 
 
25. Withdrawal of Policy 
1. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the insured person about the same 90 days  prior to 
expiry of the policy. 
2. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with the Company at the time of renewal with 
all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period. as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the  policy has 
been maintained without a break. 
 
26. Discounts: 
i. Family Discount: 10% family discount shall be offered if 2 eligible family members are covered under a single policy and 15% if more than 
2 of any of the eligible family members are covered under a single policy. Moreover, this family discount will be offered for both new policies 
as well as for renewal policies. Family discount is not applicable to Health Guard Floater Policies 
ii. Employee Discount :20% discount on published premium rates to employees of Bajaj Allianz & its group companies, this discount is 
applicable only if the policy is booked in direct office code  
iii. Co-pay Discount: 
If opted voluntarily and mentioned on the Policy Schedule that a Co -payment is effective by the Insured then Insured will be eligible of 
additional 10% or 20% discount respectively on the policy premium. 
If a claim has been admitted under Section A 1) In-patient Hospitalisation Treatment then, the insured person shall bear 10% or 20% of the 
eligible claim amount payable under this section and Our liability, if any, shall only be in excess of that sum and would be subject to the 
Sum Insured. 
iv. Long Term Policy Discount: 
a) 4 % discount is applicable if policy is opted for 2 years 
b) 8 % discount is applicable if policy is opted for 3 years 
Note: This will not apply to policies where premium is paid in instalments. 
 
27. Premium payment Zone: 
Zone A 
“Following cities has been clubbed in Zone A:- 
Delhi / NCR,  Mumbai including (Navi Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan), Hyderabad and Secunderabad, Bangalore, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, 
Vadodara and Surat. 
 
Zone B 
Rest of India apart from Zone A cities are classified as Zone B. 
Note:- 
 Policyholders paying Zone A premium rates can avail treatment allover India without any co-payment.  
 But, those, who pay zone B premium rates and avail treatment in Zone A city will have to pay 20% co-payment on admissible claim amount. 
This Co – payment will not be applicable for Accidental Hospitalization cases.” 
 Policyholder residing in Zone B can choose to pay premium for Zone A and avail treatment all over India without any co -payment.  
 
28. Sum Insured Enhancement:  
i. The Insured member can apply for enhancement of Sum Insured at the time of renewal. You can apply for enhancement of Sum Insu red 
by submitting a fresh proposal form to the company.  
ii. The acceptance of enhancement of Sum Insured would be at the discretion of the company, based on the health condition of the insured 
members & claim history of the policy. 
iii. All waiting periods as defined in the Policy shall apply for this enhanced Sum Insured limit from the effective date of enhancement of such 
Sum Insured considering such Policy Period as the first Policy with the Company.  
 
 
29. Inclusion of members under the policy: 
Where an Insured Person is added to this Policy, either by way of endorsement or at the time of renewal, the pre-existing disease clause, 
exclusions and waiting periods will be applicable considering such Policy Year as the first year of Policy with the Company f or the insured 
member. 
 
30. Territorial Limits & Governing Law 
i. We cover insured events arising during the Policy Period, as well as treatment availed, within India only. Our liability to make any payment 
shall be to make payment within India and in Indian Rupees only. 
ii. The Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. No change or alteration shall be valid or effective unless approved in writing by 
Us, which approval shall be evidenced by an endorsement on the Schedule.  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        17 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
iii. The construction, interpretation and meaning of the provisions of this Policy shall be determined in accordance with Indian l aw. The 
section headings of this Policy are included for descriptive purposes only and do not form part of this Policy for the purpose of its 
construction or interpretation. 
 
31. Arbitration and Reconciliation 
i. If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum t o be paid under the Policy (liability being otherwise admitted), such difference 
shall independently of all other questions be referred to decision of a sole arbitrator in writing by the parties or if they cannot agree upon 
a single arbitrator within 30 da ys of any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of the arbitrators comprising of 
two arbitrators, one appointed by each of the parties to the dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be appointed by s uch two 
arbitrators and arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. 
The law of the arbitration will be Indian law, and the seat of the arbitration and venue for all hearings shall be within Ind ia. 
ii. It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be referable to arbitration as herein before provided, i f We have 
disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of this Policy. 
iii. It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of action or suit upon this Policy that award 
by such arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of the loss or damage shall be first obtained. 
iv. If these arbitration provisions are held to be invalid, then all such  disputes or differences shall be referred to the exclusive jurisdiction of 
the Indian Courts. 
 
32. Nomination 
The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose of payment of claims under t he policy in 
the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of nomination shall be communicated to the company in writing and such change shall 
be effective only when an endorsement on the policy is made. In the event of death of the policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee 
{as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or 
legal representatives of the policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the policy. 
 
33. Grievance Redressal Procedure 
 
Welcome to Bajaj Allianz and Thank You for choosing us as your insurer. 
Please read Your Policy and Policy Schedule.  
The Policy and Policy Schedule set out the terms of Your contract with us. Please read Your Policy and Policy Schedule carefully to ensure that the 
cover meets Your needs. 
We do our best to ensure that our customers are deligh ted with the service they receive from Bajaj Allianz.  If You are dissatisfied we would like 
to inform You that we have a procedure for resolving issues. Please include Your Policy number in any communication. This will help us deal with 
the issue more efficiently. If You don't have it, please call our Branch office.  
Initially, we suggest You contact the Branch Manager/ Regional Manager of the local office which has issued the Policy. The address and telephone 
number will be available in the Policy. Natura lly, we hope the issue can be resolved to Your satisfaction at the earlier stage itself. But if You feel 
dissatisfied with the suggested resolution of the issue after contacting the local office, please e-mail or write to: 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road 
Yerawada, Pune 411006 
E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in 
Call  :   1800-225858 (free calls from BSNL/MTNL lines only) 
1800-1025858 ( free calls from Bharti users – mobile /landline ) or020-30305858  
 
Grievance Redressal Cell for Senior Citizens 
Senior Citizen Cellfor Insured who are Senior Citizens  
‘Good things come with time’ and so for our customers who are above 60 years of age we have created special cell to address any health insurance 
related query.  Our senior citizen customers can reach us through the below dedicated channels to enable us to service them p romptly  
Health toll free number: 1800-103-2529 
Exclusive Email address: seniorcitizen@bajajallianz.co.in 
 
If You are still not satisfied, You can approach the Insurance Ombudsman in the respective area for resolving the issue. The contact details 
of the Ombudsman offices are mentioned below: 
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory,District) 
AHMEDABAD - Shri/Smt........ 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, 
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, 
Ahmedabad – 380 001. 
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06 
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in 
Gujarat, 
Dadra & Nagar Haveli, 
Daman and Diu.   
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        18 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory,District) 
BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, 
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, 
Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in 
Karnataka.  
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,  
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, 
Near New Market, 
Bhopal – 462 003. 
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 
Fax: 0755 - 2769203 
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in 
Madhya Pradesh 
Chattisgarh.  
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri/Smt........  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
62, Forest park, 
Bhubneshwar – 751 009. 
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 
Fax: 0674 - 2596429 
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in 
Orissa.  
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, 
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, 
Chandigarh – 160 017. 
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 
Fax: 0172 - 2708274 
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in 
Punjab, 
Haryana, 
Himachal Pradesh, 
Jammu & Kashmir, 
Chandigarh.  
CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,  
Anna Salai, Teynampet, 
CHENNAI – 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284 
Fax: 044 - 24333664 
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in 
Tamil Nadu, 
Pondicherry Town and 
Karaikal (which are part of Pondicherry).  
DELHI - Shri/Smt........   
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, 
Asaf Ali Road, 
New Delhi – 110 002. 
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504 
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in 
Delhi.  
GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, 
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205 
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in 
Assam, 
Meghalaya, 
Manipur, 
Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, 
Nagaland and Tripura.  
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", 
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,  
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, 
Hyderabad - 500 004. 
Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122  
Andhra Pradesh, 
Telangana, 
Yanam and  
part of Territory of Pondicherry.   
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        19 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory,District) 
Fax: 040 - 23376599 
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in 
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, 
Bhawani Singh Marg, 
Jaipur - 302 005. 
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363 
Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in 
Rajasthan.  
ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., 
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, 
Ernakulam - 682 015. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338 
Fax: 0484 - 2359336 
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in 
Kerala, 
Lakshadweep, 
Mahe-a part of Pondicherry.  
KOLKATA - Shri/Smt........ 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,  
4, C.R. Avenue,  
KOLKATA - 700 072.  
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340  
Fax : 033 - 22124341 
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in 
West Bengal, 
Sikkim, 
Andaman & Nicobar Islands.  
LUCKNOW -Shri/Smt........ 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,  
Lucknow - 226 001.  
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331 
Fax: 0522 - 2231310 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh : 
Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, 
Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, 
Unnao, Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, 
Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, 
Basti, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang, 
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, 
Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar.  
MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,  
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054. 
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960 
Fax: 022 - 26106052 
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in  
Goa,  
Mumbai Metropolitan Region  
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane.  
NOIDA - Shri/Smt........ 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Bhagwan Sahai Palace  
4th Floor, Main Road, 
Naya Bans, Sector 15, 
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, 
U.P-201301. 
Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253 
Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in  
State of Uttaranchal and the following Districts of Uttar 
Pradesh: 
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, 
Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, 
Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, 
Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.  
PATNA - Shri/Smt........ 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,,  
Bazar Samiti Road, 
Bahadurpur, 
Patna 800 006. 
Tel.: 0612-2680952 
Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in  
Bihar, 
Jharkhand.  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        20 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory,District) 
PUNE - Shri/Smt........ 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, 
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, 
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, 
Pune – 411 030. 
Tel.: 020-41312555 
Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in  
Maharashtra, 
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane 
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region.  
 
 
Note: Address and contact number of Governing Body of Insurance Council 
Secretary General - Governing Body of Insurance Council 
JeevanSevaAnnexe, 3rd Floor, S.V. Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054 
Tel No: 022-2610 6889, 26106245, Fax No. : 022-26106949, 2610 6052, E-mail ID: inscoun@vsnl.net 
 
Cashless facility offered through network hospitals of Bajaj Allianz only.Cashless facility at 3300+ Network hospitals PAN In dia.   
Please visit our website for list of network hospitals and network Diagnostic Centres , Website: www.bajajallianz.com or  get in touch with 24*7 
helpline number: 1800-103-2529 (toll free) / 020-30305858  
 
Annexure I  
Indicative list of Day Care Procedures: 
 
1. Suturing - CLW -under LA or GA 
2. Surgical debridement of wound 
3. Therapeutic Ascitic Tapping 
4. Therapeutic Pleural Tapping 
5. Therapeutic Joint Aspiration 
6. Aspiration of an internal abscess under ultrasound guidance 
7. Aspiration of hematoma 
8. Incision and Drainage 
9. Endoscopic Foreign Body Removal - Trachea /- pharynx-larynx/ bronchus 
10. Endoscopic Foreign Body Removal -Oesophagus/stomach /rectum. 
11. True cut Biopsy - breast/- liver/- kidney-Lymph Node/-Pleura/-lung/-Muscle biopsy/-Nerve biopsy/Synovial biopsy/-Bone trephine biopsy/-
Pericardial biopsy 
12. Endoscopic ligation/banding 
13. Sclerotherapy 
14. Dilatation of digestive tract strictures 
15. Endoscopic ultrasonography and biopsy 
16. Nissen fundoplication for Hiatus Hernia /Gastro esophageal reflux disease 
17. Endoscopic placement/removal of stents 
18. Endoscopic Gastrostomy 
19. Replacement of Gastrostomy tube 
20. Endoscopic polypectomy 
21. Endoscopic decompression of colon 
22. Therapeutic ERCP 
23. Brochoscopic treatment of bleeding lesion 
24. Brochoscopic treatment of fistula /stenting 
25. Bronchoalveolar lavage & biopsy 
26. Tonsillectomy without Adenoidectomy 
27. Tonsillectomy with Adenoidectomy 
28. Excision and destruction of lingual tonsil 
29. Foreign body removal from nose 
30. Myringotomy 
31. Myringotomy with Grommet insertion 
32. Myringoplasty /Tympanoplasty 
33. Antral wash under LA 
34. Quinsy drainage 
35. Direct Laryngoscopy with or w/o biopsy 
36. Reduction of nasal fracture 
37. Mastoidectomy 
38. Removal of tympanic drain  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        21 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
39. Reconstruction of middle ear 
40. Incision of mastoid process & middle ear 
41. Excision of nose granuloma 
42. Blood transfusion for recipient 
43. Therapeutic Phlebotomy 
44. Haemodialysis/Peritoneal Dialysis 
45. Chemotherapy 
46. Radiotherapy 
47. Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA) 
48. Pericardiocentesis 
49. Insertion of filter in inferior vena cava 
50. Insertion of gel foam in artery or vein 
51. Carotid angioplasty 
52. Renal angioplasty 
53. Tumor embolisation 
54. TIPS procedure for portal hypertension 
55. Endoscopic Drainage of Pseudopancreatic cyst 
56. Lithotripsy 
57. PCNS (Percutaneous nephrostomy) 
58. PCNL (percutaneous nephrolithotomy) 
59. Suprapubiccytostomy 
60. Tran urethral resection of bladder tumor 
61. Hydrocele surgery 
62. Epididymectomy 
63. Orchidectomy 
64. Herniorrhaphy 
65. Hernioplasty 
66. Incision and excision of tissue in the perianal region 
67. Surgical treatment of anal fistula 
68. Surgical treatment of hemorrhoids 
69. Sphincterotomy/Fissurectomy 
70. Laparoscopic appendicectomy 
71. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy 
72. TURP (Resection prostate) 
73. Varicose vein stripping or ligation 
74. Excision of dupuytren's contracture 
75. Carpal tunnel decompression 
76. Excision of granuloma 
77. Arthroscopic therapy 
78. Surgery for ligament tear 
79. Surgery for meniscus tear 
80. Surgery for hemoarthrosis/pyoarthrosis 
81. Removal of fracture pins/nails 
82. Removal of metal wire 
83. Incision of bone, septic and aseptic 
84. Closed reduction on fracture, luxation or epiphyseolysis with osetosynthesis 
85. Suture and other operations on tendons and tendon sheath 
86. Reduction of dislocation under GA 
87. Cataract surgery 
88. Excision of lachrymal cyst 
89. Excision of pterigium 
90. Glaucoma Surgery 
91. Surgery for retinal detachment 
92. Chalazion removal (Eye) 
93. Incision of lachrymal glands 
94. Incision of diseased eye lids 
95. Excision of eye lid granuloma 
96. Operation on canthus & epicanthus 
97. Corrective surgery for entropion&ectropion 
98. Corrective surgery for blepharoptosis 
99. Foreign body removal from conjunctiva 
100. Foreign body removal from cornea 
101. Incision of cornea 
102. Foreign body removal from lens of the eye  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        22 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
103. Foreign body removal from posterior chamber of eye 
104. Foreign body removal from orbit and eye ball 
105. Excision of breast lump /Fibro adenoma 
106. Operations on the nipple 
107. Incision/Drainage of breast abscess 
108. Incision of pilonidal sinus 
109. Local excision of diseased tissue of skin and subcutaneous tissue 
110. Simple restoration of surface continuity of the skin and subcutaneous tissue 
111. Free skin transportation, donor site 
112. Free skin transportation recipient site 
113. Revision of skin plasty 
114. Destruction of the diseases tissue of the skin and subcutaneous tissue 
115. Incision, excision, destruction of the diseased tissue of the tongue 
116. Glossectomy 
117. Reconstruction of the tongue 
118. Incision and lancing of the salivary gland and a salivary duct 
119. Resection of a salivary duct 
120. Reconstruction of a salivary gland and a salivary duct 
121. External incision and drainage in the region of the mouth, jaw and face 
122. Incision of hard and soft palate 
123. Excision and destruction of the diseased hard and soft palate 
124. Incision, excision and destruction in the mouth 
125. Surgery to the floor of mouth 
126. Palatoplasty 
127. Transoral incision and drainage of pharyngeal abscess 
128. Dilatation and curettage 
129. Myomectomies 
130. Simple Oophorectomies 
 
Note:  
(i) Above mentioned list is a indicative list of procedures, any other surgeries/procedures requiring  less than 24 hours hospita lisation due 
to technological advances will also be covered under this policy provided such procedures comply with the standard def inition of Day 
Care Centre and Day Care treatment mentioned in the definitions.  
 
(ii) The standard exclusions and waiting periods are applicable to all of the above procedures depending on the medical condition/ disease 
under treatment. Only 24 hours hospitalization is not mandatory. 
 
Annexure II:-  
 
List I: List of Non-Medical Items 
 
SL 
No 
Item  
1 BABY FOOD Not Payable 
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES Not Payable 
3 BEAUTY SERV ICES Not Payable 
4 BELTS/ BRACES Not Payable 
5 BUDS Not Payable 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK Not Payable 
7 CARRY BAGS Not Payable 
8 EMAIL I INTERNET CHARGES Not Payable 
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY 
HOSPITA L) 
Not Payable 
10 LEGGINGS Essential in bariatric and varicose vein surgery and should be 
considered for these conditions where  
surgery itself is payable. 
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES Not Payable 
12 MINERAL WATER Not Payable 
13 SANITARY PAD Not Payable  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        23 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES Not Payable 
15 GUEST SERVICES Not Payable 
16 CREPE BANDAGE Not Payable 
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE Not Payable 
18 EYELET COLLAR Not Payable 
19 SLINGS Not Payable 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS 
SAMPLES 
Not Payable 
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGES  ALSO 
CHARGED 
Not Payable 
22 Television Charges Not Payable 
23 SURCHA RGES Not Payable 
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES Not Payable 
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS 
PART OF BED CHARGE) 
Not Payable 
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE Not Payable 
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES Not Payable 
28 COURIER CHARGES Not Payable 
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES Not Payable 
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE Not Payable 
31 MEDICAL RECORDS Not Payable 
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES Not Payable 
33 MORTUARY CHARGES Not Payable 
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES Not Payable 
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL) Not Payable 
36 SPACER Not Payable 
37 SPIROMETRE Not Payable 
38 NEBULIZER KIT Not Payable 
39 STEAM INHALER Not Payable 
40 ARMSLING Not Payable 
41 THERMOMETER Not Payable 
42 CERVICAL COLLAR Not Payable 
43 SPLINT Not Payable 
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR Not Payable 
45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED) Not Payable 
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/S HOULDER IMMOBILIZER Not Payable 
47 LUMBOSACRAL BELT Not Payable 
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES Not Payable 
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR Not Payable 
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT Not Payable 
51 ABDOMINAL  BINDER Not Payable 
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES - SPECIAL  NURSING CHARGES Not Payable 
53 SUGAR FREE Tablets Not Payable  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        24 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only 
prescribed medical pharmaceuticals payable) 
Not Payable 
55 ECG ELECTRODES Not Payable 
56 GLOVES Not Payable 
57 NEBULISATION KIT Not Payable 
58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, 
ORTHOKIT , 
RECOVERY KIT, ETC] 
Not Payable 
59 KIDNEY TRAY Not Payable 
60 MASK Not Payable 
61 OUNCE GLASS Not Payable 
62 OXYGEN MASK Not Payable 
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT Not Payable 
64 PAN CAN Not Payable 
65 TROLLY COVER Not Payable 
66 UROMETER , URINE JUG Not Payable 
68 VASOFIX SAFETY Not Payable 
 
 
List ll - ltems that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
 
S. No. Item 
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED /INDICATED) 
2 HAND WASH 
3 SHOE COVER 
4 CAPS 
5 CARDLE CHARGES 
6 COMB 
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE/ROOM FRESHNERS 
8 FOOT COVER 
9 GOWN 
10 SLIPPERS 
11 TISSUE PAPPER 
12 TOOTH PASTE 
13 TOOTH BRUSH 
14 BED PAN 
15 FACE MASK 
16 FLEXI MASK 
17 HAND HOLDER 
18 SPUTUM CUP 
19 DISINEFCTANT LOTIONS 
20 LUXURY TAX 
21 HVAC 
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES 
25 CLEAN SHEET  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        25 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET 
27 ADMISSION KIT 
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES/ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES 
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES 
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES 
35 INCTDENTAL EXPENSES / MtSC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLATNED) 
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG 
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES 
 
List lll- ltems that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
 
S. No. Item 
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES(for site preparations) 
3 EYE PAD 
4 EYE SHEILD 
5 CAMERA COVER 
6 DVD ,CD CHARGES 
7 GAUSE SOFT 
8 GAUZE 
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 
10 ARTHROSCOPE AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 
11 MICROSCOPE COVER 
12 SURGICAL BLADES,HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER 
13 SURGICAL DRILL 
14 EYE KIT 
15 EYE DRAPE 
16 X-RAY FILM 
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
18 COTTON 
19 COTTON BANDAGE 
20 SURGICAL TAPE 
21 APRON 
22 TORNIQUET 
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 
 
List lV - ltems that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        26 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
S. No. Item 
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES 
2 HOSPITALIZATION FOR EVALUATION/DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
3 URINE CONTAINER 
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES 
5 BIPAP MACHINE 
6 CPAP/CAPD EQUIPMENTS 
7 INFUSION PUMP-COST 
8 HYDROGEN PERPOXIDE\SPIRIT\DISINFECTION ETC 
9 NUTTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES - DIET CHARGES 
10 HIV KIT 
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 
12 LOZENGES 
13 MOUTH PAINT 
14 VACCINATION CHARGES 
15 ALCOHOL SWABES 
16 SCRUB SOLUTION / STERILLIUM 
17 GLUCOMETER & STRIPS 
18 URINE BAG 
 
Annexure III: Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies 
 
A. Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU 
B. Balloon Sinuplasty 
C. Deep Brain stimulation 
D. Oral chemotherapy 
E. Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection 
F. Intra vitreal injections 
G. Robotic surgeries 
H. Stereotactic radio surgeries 
I. Bronchical Thermoplasty 
J. Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser treatment) 
K. IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring) 
L. Stem cell therapy:  Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions to be covered  
 
Annexure IV: ICD specific for Mental Illness 
 
ICD Codes ICD Description 
F00 Dementia in Alzheimer disease 
F02 Dementia in other diseases classified elsewhere 
F03 Unspecified dementia 
F05 Delirium, not induced by alcohol and other psychoactive substances 
F07 Personality and behavioural disorders due to brain disease, damage and dysfunction 
F09 Unspecified organic or symptomatic mental disorder 
F20 Schizophrenia 
F21 Schizotypal disorder 
F22 Persistent delusional disorders 
F23 Acute and transient psychotic disorders 
F24 Induced delusional disorder 
F25 Schizoaffective disorders 
F31 Bipolar affective disorder 
F32 Depressive episode 
F33 Recurrent depressive disorder  
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP21185V032021                                                                                                                        27 | Page 
 
Health Guard –Gold Plan 
F40 Phobic anxiety disorders 
 
 