Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             1  
 
 
SECTION A) PREAMBLE 
Whereas the Insured described in the Policy Schedule hereto (hereinafter called the ‘Insured Person’) has made to 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (hereinafter called the “Company” or “Insurer” or “Insurance Company”) 
a proposal or Proposal as mentioned in the transcript of the Proposal, which shall be the basis of this Contract and is 
deemed to be incorporated herein, containing certain undertakings, declarations, information/particulars and 
statements, which is hereby agreed to be the basis of this Contract and be considered as incorporated herein, for the 
insurance Contract hereinafter contained and  has paid the premium specified in the Policy Schedule hereto as 
consideration for such insurance Contract, now the Company agrees, subject always to the Policy Schedule and the 
following terms, conditions, exclusions, and limitations of the Policy, and in excess of the amount of the Deductible, to 
indemnify the Insured Person in the manner and to the extent hereinafter stated. 
 
SECTION B) DEFINITIONS- STANDARD DEFINITIONS 
 
1. Accident, Accidental: 
An Accident means sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means. 
 
 
2. Any one Illness: 
Any one Illness means continuous Period of Illness and includes relapse within 45 days from the date of last consultation 
with the Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment was taken. 
 
3. AYUSH Hospital: 
An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures and 
interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following: 
a) Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or 
b) Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government/Central Council of Indian 
Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy or 
c) AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any recognized system of medicine, 
registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified registered 
AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion: 
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds; 
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; 
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where 
surgical procedures are to be carried out 
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company’s authorized 
representative. 
 
4. AYUSH Day Care Centre: 
AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health Centre (PHC), 
Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health Centre which is registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable and having facilities for carrying out treatment procedures and medical or surgical/para-surgical 
interventions or both under the supervision of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner (s) on day care basis without in-
patient services and must comply with all the following criterion: 
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge; 
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where     
surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company’s authorized 
representative. 
 
5. “AYUSH treatment” refers to the medical and / or hospitalization treatments given under Ayurveda,  
Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems. 
 
6. “Break in policy” means the period of gap that occurs at the end of the existing Policy term/installment premium 
due date, when the premium due for renewal on a given Policy or installment premium due is not paid on or before 
the premium renewal date or Grace period. 
 
7. Cashless facility: 
Cashless facility means a facility extended by the Insurer to the Insured Person where the payments, of the costs of 
treatment undergone by the Insured Person in accordance with the Policy terms and conditions, are directly made to the 
HEALTH GUARD 
Policy Wordings  Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             2  
network provider by the Insurer to the extent pre-authorization is approved. 
8. Condition Precedent: 
Condition Precedent means a Policy term or condition upon which the Insurer’s liability under the Policy is conditional upon. 
 
9. Congenital Anomaly: 
Congenital Anomaly means condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with reference to form, 
structure or position. 
a. Internal Congenital Anomaly- Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body 
b. External Congenital Anomaly- Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body 
 
10. Co-Payment: 
A co-payment means a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance Policy that provides that the Policyholder/Insured 
Person will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claim amount. A co-payment does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
 
11. Cumulative Bonus: 
Cumulative Bonus means any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer without an associated 
increase in premium. 
 
12. Day Care Centre: 
A Day Care Centre means any institution established for day care treatment of Illness and / or injuries or a medical set -
up with a hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the 
supervision of a registered and qualified Medical Practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criteria as under: - 
i. has qualified nursing staff under its employment, 
ii. has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge, 
iii. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out 
iv.            maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the Insurance Company’s   
authorized personnel. 
 
13. Day Care Treatment: 
Day care treatment means medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure which is: 
i. undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a hospital/Day Care Centre in less than 24 hrs. because of    
technological advancement, and 
ii.      Which would have otherwise required a hospitalization of more than 24 hours. Treatment normally taken 
on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. 
 
14. Dental Treatment: 
Dental treatment means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including examinations, fillings (where 
appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery. 
 
15. Disclosure to information norm: 
The Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company, in the event of misrepresentation, 
mis-description or non-disclosure of any material fact. 
 
16. Emergency Care: 
Emergency Care means management of an Illness or Injury which results in symptoms which occur suddenly and 
unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a Medical Practitioner to prevent death or serious long-t e r m impairment of 
the Insured Person’s health. 
 
17. Grace Period: 
Grace period means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date during which premium 
payment can be made to renew or continue a Policy in force without loss of continuity benefits pertaining to waiting periods 
and coverage of pre-existing diseases.  
Coverage is not available for the period for which no premium is received. 
The Grace period for payment of the premium for all types of insurance policies shall be: fifteen days (15) where 
premium payment mode is monthly and thirty days (30) in all other cases.  
Coverage shall be available during the Grace period, if the premium is paid in Instalments during the Policy Period on 
due date. 
 
18. Hospital: 
A hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment of Illness and/or injuries and which 
has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             3  
Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the enactments specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies 
with all minimum criteria as under: 
i. has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock; 
ii. has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 in-patient beds in 
all other places; 
iii. has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge round the clock; 
iv. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out; 
v. maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the Insurance Company’s authorized personnel. 
 
19. Hospitalization: 
Hospitalization means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 consecutive In-patient Care hours except for 
specified procedures/ treatments, where such admission could be for a period of less than 24 consecutive hours. 
 
20. Illness: 
Illness means sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal physiological function 
and requires medical treatment. 
a. Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, Illness or Injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment 
which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the 
disease/Illness/Injury which leads to full recovery. 
b. Chronic condition – A chronic condition is defined as a disease, Illness, or Injury that has one or more of the 
following characteristics: 
i. it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups, and /or tests 
ii. it needs ongoing or long-term control for relief of symptoms 
iii. it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to cope with it 
iv. it continues indefinitely 
v. it recurs or is likely to recur. 
 
21. Injury: 
Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding Illness or disease solely and directly caused by external, violent 
and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner. 
 
22. Inpatient Care: 
Inpatient care means treatment for which the Insured Person has to stay in a hospital for more than 24 hours for a covered 
event. 
 
23. Intensive Care Unit: 
Intensive care unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the constant supervision of a 
dedicated Medical Practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous monitoring and treatment of 
patients who are in a critical condition, or require life support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is 
considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards. 
 
24. ICU Charges: 
ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which shall include 
the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU patient including monitoring devices, 
critical care nursing and intensivist charges. 
 
25. Kidney Failure Requiring Regular Dialysis: 
End stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible failure of both kidneys to function, as a result of which either 
regular renal dialysis (hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantation is carried out. Diagnosis has 
to be confirmed by a Specialist Medical Practitioner. 
 
26. Maternity expenses: 
Maternity expenses mean; 
a. medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and caesarean sections 
incurred during hospitalization); 
b. expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period. 
 
27. Medical Advice: 
Medical advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of any prescription or 
follow up prescription. 
 Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             4  
 
28. Medical Expenses: 
Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually incurred for medical 
treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these are no more than 
would have been payable if the Insured Person had not been Insured and no more than other hospitals or Medical 
Practitioners in the same locality would have charged  for the same medical treatment. 
 
29. Medical Practitioner/Doctor/ Physician: 
Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any State or Medical 
Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy or Ayurvedic and or such other authorities set up by the 
Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is 
acting within its scope and jurisdiction of license and acceptable to Us. 
 
30. Medically Necessary Treatment: 
Medically necessary treatment means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in hospital or part of a stay in hospital which 
i. is required for the medical management of the Illness or Injury suffered by the Insured Person; 
ii. must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical care in scope, 
duration, or intensity; 
iii. must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner, 
iv. must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or by the medical 
community in India. 
 
31. Migration: 
means a facility provided to policyholders (including all members under family cover and group policies), to transfer 
the credits gained for Pre-existing diseases and Specific waiting periods from one health insurance policy to another 
with the same insurer. 
 
32. Moratorium 
 After completion of sixty continuous months of coverage (including Portability and Migration) in health insurance 
policy, no policy and claim shall be contestable by the insurer on grounds of non -disclosure, misrepresentation, 
except on grounds of established fraud. This period of sixty continuous months is called as Moratorium period. The 
Moratorium would be applicable for the sums insured of the first policy. Wherever,  the sum insured is enhanced, 
completion of sixty continuous months would be applicable from the date of enhancement of sums insured only on 
the enhanced limits. 
 
33. Network Provider: 
Network Provider means hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an Insurer and TPA to 
provide medical services to an insured by a cashless facility. 
 
34. New Born Baby: 
Newborn baby means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged up to 90 days. 
 
35. Non- Network Provider: 
Non-Network provider means any hospital, Day Care Centre or other provider that is not part of the network. 
 
36. Notification of Claim: 
Notification of claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the recognized modes of 
communication. 
 
37. OPD treatment: 
OPD treatment means one in which the Insured Person visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like a consultation room 
for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured Person is not admitted as a day 
care or in-patient. 
 
38. Portability: 
“Portability” means a facility provided to the health insurance policyholders (including all members under family 
cover), to transfer the credits gained for, Pre-existing diseases and Specific waiting periods from one insurer to 
another insurer. 
 
39. Pre-Existing Disease: 
Pre- existing disease means any condition, ailment or Injury or disease Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             5  
a. That is/are diagnosed by a Physician not more than 36 months prior to the date of commencement 
of the policy issued by the insurer Or 
b. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a Physician, not more than 36 
months prior to the date of commencement of the policy. 
 
40. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses: 
Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses means Medical Expenses incurred during predefined number of days 
preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that: 
a. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s Hospitalization was 
required, and 
b.   The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company. 
 
41. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses: 
Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses means Medical Expenses incurred during predefined number of days 
immediately after the Insured Person is discharged from the hospital provided that: 
a.   Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s hospitalization was required, and 
b.   The inpatient hospitalization claim for such hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company. 
 
42. Qualified Nurse: 
Qualified nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing Council of 
any state in India. 
 
43. Reasonable and Customary charges: 
Reasonable and Customary charges mean the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard charges for the 
specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for identical or similar services, 
taking into account the nature of the Illness / Injury involved. 
 
44. Renewal: 
Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a provision of grace 
period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-existing diseases, time-bound 
exclusions and for all waiting periods. 
 
45. Room rent: 
Room Rent means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall include the 
associated Medical Expenses. 
 
46. Surgery or Surgical Procedure: 
Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of an Illness or 
Injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief from suffering and prolongation of life, 
performed in a hospital or Day Care Centre by a Medical Practitioner. 
 
47. Specific waiting period  
means a period up to 36 months from the commencement of a health insurance policy during which period specified 
diseases/treatments (except due to an accident) are not covered. On completion of the period, diseases/treatments 
shall be covered provided the policy has 
been continuously renewed without any break. 
 
48. Unproven/Experimental treatment: 
Unproven/Experimental treatment means treatment, including drug Experimental therapy, which is not based on 
established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or unproven. 
 
49. Aggregate Deductible-  
Aggregate deductible is a cost sharing requirement under this policy that provides the company will not be liable for 
a specified rupee amount of the covered expenses, which will apply before any benefits are payable by the 
company. A deductible does not reduce the sum insured. The deductible is applicable in aggregate towards 
hospitalization expenses incurred during the policy period 
 
 
SECTION B) DEFINITIONS- SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS 
 
1. Act of Terrorism: Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             6  
Means an act or thing by any person or group(s) of persons, whether acting alone or on behalf of or in connection with 
or in connivance with or at the instance or instigation of any person or group(s) or organization(s) or associations(s), 
who are committed or proclaimed to be committed for political, religious or ideological purposes, whether such person 
or group(s) of persons or organization(s) or association(s) are or are not banned any law, in such a manner or with intent 
to threaten the unity, integrity, security or sovereignty of India Or to strike  terror in the people or any section of the 
people by using bombs, dynamite or other explosive substances or inflammable substances or firearms or other lethal 
weapons or poisons or noxious gases or other chemicals or by any other substances (whether biological or otherwise) 
of a hazardous nature or by any other means whatsoever, with intend to cause, or likely to cause, death or, or injuries 
to any person or persons or loss of, or damage to, or destruction of, property or disruption of any supplies or services 
essential to the life of the community or causes damage or destruction of any property or equipment used or intended 
to be used for the defense of India or in connection with any other purposes of the Government of India, any State 
Government or an of their agencies, or detains any person and threatens to kill or injure such person in order to compel 
the Government or any other person to do or abstain from doing any act. Provided further that for the above acts 
appropriate criminal prosecution has been initiated by police and charge sheet has been filed incompetent court of 
criminal jurisdiction, either under special law or under general law. 
 
2. Bajaj Allianz Network Hospitals / Network Hospitals/Network Providers: 
Bajaj Allianz Network Hospitals / Network Hospitals means the Hospitals which have been empaneled by the Insurer as 
per the latest version of the list of Hospitals maintained by the Insurer, which is available to You on request. For updated 
list please visit our website. 
 
3. Bajaj Allianz Diagnostic Centre: 
Bajaj Allianz Diagnostic Centre means the diagnostic centers which have been empaneled by us as per the latest 
version of the schedule of diagnostic centers maintained by Us, which is available to You on request. 
 
4. Dependent child: 
A child is considered a dependent for insurance purposes until his 35th birthday (even if not enrolled in an educational 
institution) provided he is financially dependent, on the proposal. 
 
5. Endorsement: 
means any writing on a Policy Schedule or Policy, in addition to its normal wording which supplements or modifies 
its terms. It may be added when Policy is prepared, or subsequently. Provided however any Service Level Agreement 
[SLA] or Agreement/MOU laying down various service levels shall not be treated as Endorsement. 
 
6. Family or Family Members: 
For the purpose of Individual Sum Insured Policy- includes the Insured Person; his/her lawfully wedded spouse and 
dependent children, parents, Sister, Brother, Parents-in- law, Aunt, Uncle, Grandchildren. 
For the purpose of Family Floater- includes the Insured Person; his/her lawfully wedded spouse and dependent 
children. For Parents separate floater Policy can be taken. 
 
7. Limit of Indemnity: 
Limit of Indemnity represents our maximum liability to make payment for each and every claim per person and collectively 
for all persons mentioned in the Schedule during the Policy Period and in the aggregate for the person(s) named in the 
schedule during the Policy Period, and means the amount stated in the Schedule against each Cover. 
 
8. Medical Consumable: 
Medical consumables and equipment include syringes, needles, sutures, staples, packaging, tubing, catheters, medical 
gloves, gowns, masks, adhesives and seal- ants for wound dressing and a whole host of other devices and tools used 
with a hospital or surgical environment. 
 
9. Named Insured/ Insured / Insured Person: 
Insured Person means the persons, or his Family Members, named in the Schedule provided that an Insured Person 
or his Family Members has attained the age of 3 months and is not older than 65 years of age at the commencement 
of the Policy Period. 
 
10. Obesity: means abnormal or excessive fat accumulation that may impair health. Obesity is measured in Body Mass 
Index. 
Body mass index (BMI) is a simple index of weight-for-height that is commonly used to classify overweight and obesity 
in adults. It is defined as a person’s weight in kilograms divided by the square of his height in meters (kg/m2). 
The WHO definition is: 
• BMI greater than or equal to 25 is overweight Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             7  
• BMI greater than or equal to 30 is obesity 
 
11. Policy or Contract means the Proposal, the Policy Schedule, along with these Terms and Conditions issued to the 
Insured Person and any annexures and/or Endorsements attaching to and / or forming part thereof either at the 
commencement of Policy Period or during the Policy Period. 
 
12. Policy Schedule or Schedule means the Policy Schedule and any annexure or Endorsements to it, if any, as issued 
by the Company, which forms part of Policy. 
 
13. Policy Period means period from risk inception date [RID] to risk end date [RED], as mentioned in the Policy 
Schedule. 
 
14. Policy Year means the period of 12 months. In case of long-term Policy for more than one year, then each year viz. 1st 
year, 2nd year, 3rd year etc., shall be treated as a separate Policy Year. 
 
15. Single Private room: 
Single Private Room means a single occupancy air-conditioned room with an attached washroom/toilet. Such room 
must be the most economical of all accommodation available as single occupancy in that hospital and excludes a 
suite. 
 
16. Schedule means the schedule and any annexure to it. 
 
17. You, Your, Yourself, Your Family named in the Policy Schedule means the Insured Person or Insured Person’s 
Family Members who are beneficiaries that We insure as set out in the Schedule. 
 
18. We, Our, Ours means the Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited. 
 
SECTION C) COVERAGE 
 
 Types of Policy 
• Health Guard-Individual 
• Health Guard-Family Floater 
 
 Tenure of Policy: 
• Health Guard-Individual: 1year, 2 years or 3 years 
• Health Guard-Family Floater: 1year, 2 years or 3 years 
 
 Scope of cover: 
The Company hereby agrees to pay in respect of an admissible claim, any or all of the following covers subject to the 
Sum Insured, limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or otherwise expressed in this Policy. 
 
1. In-patient Hospitalization Treatment: 
If You are hospitalized on the advice of a Medical Practitioner as defined under Policy because of Illness or 
Accidental Bodily Injury sustained or contracted during the Policy Period, then We will pay You, Reasonable and 
Customary Medical Expenses incurred subject to 
i. Room rent and Boarding expenses as provided by the Hospital/Nursing Home subject to below limits 
 Silver Plan 
- Up to 1% of Sum Insured per day (Excluding Cumulative Bonus) 
 
 Gold Plan and Platinum Plan 
- Sum Insured 3 lacs to 7.5 lacs- maximum eligible room is Single Private Air-Conditioned room 
- Sum Insured 10 Lacs and above - eligible for any room category 
 
ii. If admitted in ICU, the Company will pay up to actual ICU expenses provided by Hospital. 
iii. Nursing Expenses as provided by the hospital 
iv. Surgeon, Anesthetist, Medical Practitioner, Consultants, Specialists Fees. 
v. Anesthesia, Blood, Oxygen, Operation Theatre Charges, surgical appliances, Medicines & Drugs, Dialysis, 
Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy, cost of Artificial Limbs, cost of prosthetic devices implanted during surgical 
procedure like Pacemaker, orthopedic implants, infra cardiac valve replacements, vascular stents. 
vi. Relevant laboratory diagnostic tests, X-ray and such similar expenses that are medically necessary prescribed 
by the treating Medical Practitioner. Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             8  
Note: 
(a) In case of admission to a room at rates exceeding the limits as mentioned under (i), the reimbursement of all other 
expenses incurred at the Hospital, with the exception of cost of Pharmacy/medicines, consumables, implants, 
medical devices & diagnostics, shall be payable in the same proportion as the admissible rate per day bears 
to the actual rate per day of room rent charges 
(b) Proportionate deductions shall not apply in respect of the Hospitals which do not follow differential billings or for 
those expenses in respect of which differential billing is not adopted based on the room category 
 
2. Pre-Hospitalization: 
The Medical Expenses incurred during the 60 days immediately before You Were Hospitalized, provided that: Such 
Medical Expenses were incurred for the same Illness/Injury for which subsequent Hospitalization was required, 
and We have accepted an inpatient Hospitalization claim under In-patient Hospitalization Treatment. (Section C. 
1) 
 
3. Post-Hospitalization: 
The Medical Expenses  incurred during the 90 days immediately after You were discharged post Hospitalization 
provided that: Such costs are incurred in respect of the same Illness/Injury for which the earlier Hospitalization was 
required, and We have accepted an inpatient Hospitalization claim under In-patient Hospitalization Treatment . 
(Section C. 1) 
 
4. Road Ambulance: 
We will pay the reasonable cost to a maximum of ₹ 20,000/- per Policy Year incurred on an ambulance offered by a 
healthcare or ambulance service provider for transferring You to the nearest Hospital with adequate emergency 
facilities for the provision of health services following an Emergency. 
We will also reimburse the expenses incurred on an ambulance offered by a healthcare or ambulance service 
provider for transferring You from the Hospital where You were admitted initially to another hospital with higher 
medical facilities. 
Claim under this section shall be payable by Us only when: 
i. Such life-threatening emergency condition is certified by the Medical Practitioner, and 
ii. We have accepted Your Claim under “In-patient Hospitalization Treatment” or “Day Care Procedures” 
section of the Policy. 
 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy. 
This benefit will be applicable each year for policies with term more than 1 year. 
 
5. Day Care Procedures: 
We will pay You the Medical Expenses as listed above under Section C. 1- In-patient Hospitalization Treatment 
for Day care procedures / Surgeries taken as an inpatient in a hospital or day care center but not in the outpatient 
department. Refer Annexure I of Policy Wordings for list of Day Care Procedures. 
 
6. Organ Donor Expenses: 
We will pay expenses towards organ donor’s treatment for harvesting of the donated organ, provided that, 
1. The organ donor is any person whose organ has been made available in accordance and in compliance 
with THE TRANSPLANTATION OF HUMAN ORGANS (AMENDMENT) BILL, 2011and the organ donated is for 
the use of the Insured Person, and 
2. We have accepted an inpatient Hospitalization claim for the Insured Person under In-patient 
Hospitalization Treatment (Section C.1). 
 
7. Convalescence Benefit: 
In the event of Insured Person Hospitalized for a disease/Illness/Injury for a continuous period exceeding 10 
days, We will pay benefit amount as per the plan opted subject to below limits. 
 Silver Plan 
- Rs. 5,000 per Policy Year 
 
 Gold and Platinum Plan 
- ₹ 5,000 for Sum Insured up to ₹ 5 lacs 
- ₹ 7,500 for Sum Insured 7.5 lacs and above per Policy Year. 
 
This benefit will be triggered provided that the hospitalization claim is accepted under Section C.1-In-patient 
Hospitalization Treatment. Payment under this benefit will not reduce the base Sum Insured mentioned in policy 
Schedule. Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             9  
This benefit will be applicable each year for policies with term more than 1 year. 
 
8. Daily Cash Benefit for Accompanying an Insured Child: 
We will pay Daily Cash Benefit of ₹ 500 per day maximum up to 10 days during each Policy Year for reasonable 
accommodation expenses in respect of one parent/ legal guardian, to stay with any minor Insured (under the Age 
of 12), provided the hospitalization claim is paid under Section C.1-In-patient Hospitalization Treatment. 
Payment under this benefit will not reduce the base Sum Insured mentioned in policy Schedule. This benefit will be 
applicable each year for policies with term more than 1 year. 
 
9. Sum Insured Reinstatement Benefit: 
If Section C1. In-patient Hospitalization Treatment Sum Insured and Cumulative Bonus or Super Cumulative 
Bonus (if any) is exhausted due to claims registered and paid during the Policy Year, then it is agreed that 100% of 
the Base Sum Insured specified under In-patient Hospitalization Treatment would be reinstated for the particular 
Policy Year provided that: 
i. The reinstated Sum Insured will be triggered only after the In-patient Hospitalization Treatment Sum 
Insured inclusive of the Cumulative Bonus or Super Cumulative Bonus (If applicable) has been completely 
exhausted during the Policy Year; 
ii. The reinstated Sum Insured can be used for claims made by the Insured in respect of the benefits stated in In-
patient Hospitalization Treatment. 
iii. If the claimed  amount is higher than the  Balance Sum Insured inclusive of the Cumulative Bonus or Super 
Cumulative Bonus (If applicable) under the policy, then this benefit will not be triggered for the same  claim, 
however Sum Insured reinstatement would be triggered for subsequent claims for the same member or 
other insured members. 
iv. This benefit is- applicable only once during each Policy Year and will not be carried forward to the subsequent 
Policy Year/renewals if the benefit is not utilized. 
v. This benefit is applicable only once in life time of Insured Person covered under this Policy for claims 
regarding CANCER and KIDNEY FAILURE REQUIRING REGULAR DIALYSIS as defined under the Policy, 
however the insured member is eligible for re-instatement benefit every year for other admissible conditions. 
vi. This benefit will be applicable each year for long term policies. 
vii. Additional premium would not be charged for reinstatement of the Sum Insured. 
viii. In case of Family Floater policy, Reinstatement of Sum Insured will be available for all Insured Persons  in 
the Policy Understanding Sum Insured Reinstatement made easy- 
 
 
 
10. Preventive Health Check Up: 
At the end of block of every continuous period as mentioned in coverage during which You have held Our  
Health Guard Policy, You are eligible for a free Preventive Health checkup. We will reimburse the amount as per the 
plan opted, subject to below limits 
 Silver Plan 
- 1% of the Sum Insured maximum up to ₹ 2000/- for each Insured Person in Individual Policy during the 
block of 3 years 
 
 Gold Plan 
- 1% of the Sum Insured max up to ₹ 5000/- for each Insured Person in Individual Policy during the block of 
3 years. 
 
 Platinum Plan 
- 1% of the Sum Insured max up to ₹ 5000/- for each Insured Person in Individual Policy during the block of 
2 years. This benefit can be availed by proposer & spouse only under Floater Sum Insured Policies. 
 
 Sum Insured 
at the 
beginning of 
the year 
Accumulated 
Cumulative 
Bonus 
Sum Insured 
with CB 
Hospitalization 
Amount 
Reinstated 
Sum Insured 
Payable 
Claim 
Amount 
Balance Sum 
Insured 
1st Claim 300,000 10% 330,000 350,000 0 330,000 0 
2nd 
Claim 
- - - 200,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 
3rd 
Claim 
- - - 200,000 0 100,000 0 Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             10  
You may approach Us for the arrangement of the Health Checkup. For the avoidance of doubt, We shall not be liable 
for any other ancillary or peripheral costs or expenses (including but not limited to those for transportation, 
accommodation or sustenance). 
Contact Email id- healthcheck@bajajallianz.co.in     
Note: Payment under this benefit will not reduce the base Sum Insured mentioned in Policy Schedule. 
 
11. Bariatric Surgery Cover: 
If You are hospitalized on the advice of a Medical Practitioner because of Conditions mentioned below which 
required You to undergo Bariatric Surgery during the Policy Period, then We will pay You, Reasonable and Customary 
Expenses related to Bariatric Surgery 
Eligibility: 
For adults aged 18 years or older, presence of severe documented in contemporaneous clinical records, defined as 
any of the following: Body Mass Index (BMI); 
a. greater than or equal to 40 or 
b. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following failure of less     
invasive methods of weight loss: 
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
ii. Coronary heart disease 
iii. Severe Sleep Apnea 
iv. Uncontrolled Type 2 Diabetes 
Our obligation to make payment in respect of Bariatric Surgery after the expiry of the 36 months period, shall be 
restricted to 25% of the Sum Insured in Silver Plan and 50% of the Sum Insured subject to maximum of Rs 5 lac 
in Gold and Platinum Plan. 
 
12. Wellness Benefits: 
At each renewal of Health Guard Policy with Us, you will be entitled for a wellness discount subject to below 
mentioned criteria being fulfilled by You during the preceding Policy Year. The below mentioned criteria should be 
fulfilled each year in case of long-t e rm policies. 
 
S
r
. 
N
o 
Health Parameter Reading 
1 Health Risk Assessment Complete the online health risk 
assessment 2 HbA1c (%) Up to 6.5% 
3 Fasting Blood Sugar Up to 120 mg/dl 
 
4 
 
Blood Pressure (mm of Hg) 
Systolic Diastolic 
Up to 
140 
Up to 90 
5 Body Mass Index (BMI) 18–25 
6 Serum Cholesterol 200mg/dl 
7 Steps Count 5,000 steps daily – 20 days every 
month  
8 
 
Hemoglobin 
Male-13-18mg/dl 
Female- 11-15mg/dl 
 
Parameters Achieved Discount Offered 
4/5 out of 8 5% 
6/7 out of 8 7.5% 
8 out of 8 10% 
 
Wellness Eligibility Criteria: 
 
1. Wellness discount is applicable for members age 25 years and above 
2. If the insured member meets 4/5 out of 8 criteria, he/she is eligible for 5% discount, 6/7 out of 8 criteria he /she is 
eligible for 7.5% discount & meets with 8 criteria he / she is eligible for 10% discount. 
3. If an Insured Person meets 8 out of 8 above mentioned parameters and in addition, he/she walks for 10000 steps 
for 20 days every month then they will be eligible for additional discount of 2.5%. 
4. In Floater Policies, discount will be offered basis the average of number of Parameters Achieved by all Insured 
members age 25 years & above. 
 Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             11  
 
 
In addition to the above parameters, if the eligible members walk for 10000 steps each for 20 days every month then 
they will be eligible for additional discount of 2.5%. 
 
13. AYUSH Hospitalization  
If You are Hospitalized for not less than 24 hrs., in any AYUSH Hospital which is a government hospital or in any 
institute recognized by government and/or accredited by Quality Council of India/National Accreditation Board on 
Health on the advice of a Medical Practitioner because of Illness or Accidental Bodily Injury sustained or contracted 
during the Policy Period then we will pay you: In-patient Treatment Medical Expenses for Ayurvedic and Homeopathic 
treatment: 
 Room rent, boarding expenses 
 Nursing care 
 Consultation fees 
 Medicines, drugs and Medical consumables, 
 Ayurvedic and Homeopathic treatment procedures  
 Our maximum liability per   Policy Year is up to the limit of ”In-patient Hospitalization Treatment” Sum 
Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule.  
 This benefit will be applicable each year for policies with term more than 1 year. The  claim will be admissible 
under the Policy provided that, 
(i) The Illness/Injury requires inpatient admission and the procedure performed on the Insured Person cannot be 
carried out on out-patient basis 
 
14. Maternity Expenses (Applicable for Gold and Platinum Plan only): 
We will pay the Medical Expenses for the delivery of a baby (including caesarean section) and/or expenses related 
to medically recommended and lawful termination of pregnancy, limited to maximum 2 deliveries or termination(s) or 
either, 
a. Our maximum liability per delivery or termination shall be limited to the amount specified in the Policy Schedule as 
per Sum Insured opted. 
b. We will pay the Medical Expenses of pre-natal and post-natal hospitalization (90 days post-delivery) per 
delivery or termination up to the maternity limit. 
c. Waiting period of 72 months as mentioned in the Policy Schedule would apply from the date of issuance of the first 
Health Guard Policy with Us, 
d. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of the extant 
IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior 
coverage where Insured Person is having policy with Maternity Expense benefit. 
e. Fresh Waiting period of 72 months as mentioned in the Policy Schedule would apply for all the policies issued with 
continuity from other Health Indemnity product/plans of Our Company where maternity expenses are not covered. 
f. Any complications arising, within 90 days post-delivery, out of or as a consequence of maternity/child birth will be 
covered up to the maternity limit. 
g. Payment under this benefit will not reduce the base Sum Insured mentioned in policy Schedule. 
 
15. New Born Baby Cover (Applicable for Gold and Platinum Plan only): 
Coverage for new born baby will be considered subject to a claim being accepted under Maternity Expenses (Section 
C 14). We will pay the following expenses within the limit of the Sum Insured available under the Maternity 
Expenses section. 
We will pay for, 
a) Medical Expenses towards treatment of Your new born baby while You are Hospitalized as an inpatient for delivery 
for the Hospitalization, 
b) Hospitalization charges incurred on the new born baby during post birth including any complications shall be 
covered up to a period of 90 days from the date of birth and within limit of the Sum Insured under Maternity 
Expenses without payment of any additional premium 
c) Mandatory Vaccinations of the new born baby up to 90 days, as recommended by the Indian Pediatric Association 
will be covered under the Maternity Expenses Sum Insured. 
 
COVERS APPLICABLE FOR PLATINUM PLAN ONLY 
 
16. Super Cumulative Bonus: 
This benefit would be extended if You renew Your “Health Guard” with Us without any break and there has been no 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             12  
claim in the preceding year, 
i. We will increase the Limit of Indemnity by 50% of base Sum Insured per annum for first 2 years and later 10% of 
base Sum Insured per annum for next 5 years. 
ii. Maximum bonus will not exceed 150% of the Hospitalization Sum Insured 
iii. If a claim is made in any year where a Super Cumulative Bonus has been applied, then the increased Limit of 
Indemnity in the Policy Period of the subsequent “Health Guard” shall be reduced to previous slab. However, 
the Sum Insured would not be decreased. 
iv. In case of any increase or decrease of Sum Insured at renewal the Super Cumulative Bonus % would be 
calculated on the lesser Sum Insured. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. Recharge Benefit: 
i. In event of claim amount exceeding the limit of indemnity, Sum Insured would be increased by 20% maximum up 
to 5 Lacs. 
 
 
ii. In case of Individual Sum Insured policies, this benefit will be applicable once in a policy year for each insured 
member. 
iii. Fora Floater policy, this benefit will be applicable cumulatively to all insured members, once in a policy year. 
iv. The unutilized Recharge amount cannot be carried forward to the subsequent renewal. 
 
OPTIONAL COVERS – 
 
18. Air Ambulance (Optional available for SI 5Lacs and above) 
In consideration of payment of additional premium by the Proposer to the Company and realization thereof by the 
Company,, We will indemnify You against the expenses incurred for rapid ambulance transportation in an airplane 
or helicopter from the site of first occurrence of the Illness / Accident to the nearest hospital during Policy Period 
necessitated due to emergency life threatening health conditions provided such hospitalization claim is admissible 
under “Health Guard” Policy.  
 
The claim would be reimbursed up to the actual expenses subject to a maximum Sum Insured limits as specified 
under the Air Ambulance Cover in the Policy Schedule, subject otherwise to all other terms, conditions and 
Exclusions of the Policy. 
Specific Conditions applicable to Air Ambulance Cover 
a. Return transportation to the Insured Person’s home by air ambulance is excluded. 
b. Such air ambulance should have valid license to operate as such by competent authorities of the 
Government/s. 
 
Air Ambulance Cover Sub limit options 
 
Base Sum Insured 5L 7.5L 10L 15L 20L 25L 30L 35L 40L 45L 50L 75L 1Cr 
Air Ambulance  
CoverSum 
Insured limit 
5L 5L/10L/15 L/20 L/25L 5L/10L/15 L/20 L/25L/50 L 
 
 
SECTION D) EXCLUSIONS UNDER THE POLICY - STANDARD EXCLUSIONS 
 
Claim free 
Year 
Year 
1 
Year 
2 
Year 
3 
Year 
4 
Year 
5 
Year 
6 
Year 
7 
% Increase in 
Limit of 
Indemnity 
50% 50% 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 
SUM INSURED LIMIT (₹) 
5 Lacs 1 Lac 
7.5 Lacs 1.5 Lacs 
10 Lacs 2 Lacs 
15 Lacs 3 Lacs 
20 Lacs 4Lacs 
25 Lacs to 1 Crore 5 Lacs Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             13  
I. Waiting Period (Applicable for Silver, Gold and Platinum Plan): 
1. Pre-existing Diseases waiting period (Excl01): 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be excluded until the 
expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Health Guard Policy with us. 
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase. 
c. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of the extant 
IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior 
coverage. 
d. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of 36 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the same being 
declared at the time of application and accepted by Us. 
 
2. Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Excl02): 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the expiry of 24 
months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Health Guard Policy with Us. This exclusion shall not 
be applicable for claims arising due to an Accident. 
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase. 
c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre-Existing diseases, then the 
longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared and accepted without a 
specific exclusion. 
e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms on portability 
stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
f. List of specific diseases/procedures is as below 
 
1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers 2. Cataracts, 
3. Any type of fistula 4. Macular Degeneration 
5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy 6. Hernia of all types 
7. All types of sinuses 8. Fissure in ano 
9. Hemorrhoids, piles 10. Hydrocele 
11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding 12. Fibromyoma 
13. Endometriosis 14. Hysterectomy 
15. Uterine Prolapse 16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems 
17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/ adenoids/ paranasal 
sinuses 
18. Surgery on all internal or external 
tumors/cysts/ nodules/polyps of any kind 
including breast lumps with exception of 
Malignant 
tumor or growth. 
19. Mental Illness 20. Diseases of gall bladder including 
cholecystitis 21. Pancreatitis 22. All forms of Cirrhosis 
23. Gout and rheumatism 24. Tonsillitis 
25. Surgery for varicose veins and varicose 
ulcers 
26. Chronic Kidney Disease 
27. Alzheimer’s Disease  
 
3. Any Medical Expenses incurred during the first three consecutive annual periods during which You have the 
benefit of a Health Guard Policy with Us in connection with: 
a. Joint replacement surgery, 
b. Surgery for vertebral column disorders (unless necessitated due to an Accident) 
c. Surgery to correct deviated nasal septum 
d. Hypertrophied turbinate  
e. Congenital internal diseases or anomalies 
f. Treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error recommended by Ophthalmologist for medical reasons with 
refractive error greater or equal to 7.5 
g. Bariatric Surgery 
h. Parkinson’s Disease 
i. Genetic disorders 
 
4. 30-day waiting period (Excl03): 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness within 30 days from the first Policy commencement date shall be 
excluded except claims arising due to an Accident, provided the same are covered. 
b. This exclusion shall not, however apply if the Insured has Continuous Coverage for more than twelve months Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             14  
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event of granting higher 
Sum Insured subsequently. 
 
II. General Exclusions (Applicable for Silver, Gold and Platinum Plan) 
 
1. Investigation & Evaluation (Excl04): 
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded 
b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment are excluded. 
 
2. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care- (Excl05): 
Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also includes: 
i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with activities of daily living such as 
bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons. 
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address medical, physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs. 
 
3. Obesity/Weight Control (Excl06): 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
1. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor 
2. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols 
3. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
4. Body Mass Index (BMI); 
a) greater than or equal to 40 or 
b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following failure of 
less invasive methods of weight loss: 
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy  
ii. Coronary heart disease 
iii. Severe Sleep Apnea 
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
 
4. Change-of-gender treatments (Excl07): 
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those of the 
opposite sex. 
 
5. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Excl08): 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction following an 
Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk 
to the Insured Person . For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical 
Practitioner. 
 
6. Breach of law (Excl10): 
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insure Person committing or attempting to commit a 
breach of law with criminal intent. 
 
7. Excluded Providers (Excl11): 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other provider specifically 
excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website / notified to the policyholders are not admissible. However, in case 
of life threatening situations or following an Accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the 
complete claim. 
 
8. Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences thereof. (Excl12) 
 
9. Treatments received in heath hydro’s, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private beds registered as 
a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. 
(Excl13) 
 
10. Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including but not limited to 
Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a Medical Practitioner as part of hospitalization 
claim or day care procedure. (Excl14) 
 
11. Refractive Error (Excl15): 
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres. Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             15  
12. Unproven Treatments (Excl16): 
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven 
treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to support their 
effectiveness. 
 
13. Sterility and Infertility (Excl17): 
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: 
a. Any type of contraception, sterilization 
b. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive technologies such as IVF, 
ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI 
c. Gestational Surrogacy 
d. Reversal of sterilization 
 
III. General Exclusions (Applicable for Silver Plan) 
 
14. Maternity (Excl18) (Applicable for Silver Plan only): 
a. Medical Treatment Expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and caesarean sections incurred 
during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy. 
b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an Accident) and lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the 
policy period. 
 
SECTION D) EXCLUSIONS UNDER THE POLICY - SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS 
 
I. Waiting Period for Maternity Expenses (Applicable only for Gold and Platinum Plan) 
 
1. Any treatment arising from or traceable to pregnancy, child birth including cesarean section and/or any treatment related 
to pre and postnatal care and complications arising out of Pregnancy and Childbirth until 72 months continuous period 
has elapsed since the inception of the first Health Guard Policy with US. However, this exclusion will not apply to Ectopic 
Pregnancy proved by diagnostic means and certified to be life threatening by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
 
II. General Exclusions (Applicable for Silver, Gold and Platinum Plan) 
 
1. Any dental treatment that comprises of cosmetic surgery, dentures, dental prosthesis, dental implants, orthodontics, 
surgery of any kind unless as a result of Accidental Bodily Injury to natural teeth and also requiring hospitalization. 
2. Medical Expenses where Inpatient care is not warranted and does not require supervision of qualified nursing staff and 
qualified Medical Practitioner round the clock 
3. War, invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil war, commotion, unrest, rebellion, 
revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power or confiscation or nationalization or requisition of or damage by or 
under the order of any government or public local authority. Any Medical Expenses incurred due to Act of Terrorism will be 
covered under the Policy. 
4. The cost of spectacles, contact lenses, hearing aids, crutches, dentures, artificial teeth and all other external 
appliances and/or devices whether for diagnosis or treatment except for Cost of Artificial Limbs, cost of prosthetic devices 
implanted during surgical procedure like Pacemaker, orthopedic implants, infra cardiac valve replacements, vascular stents 
etc. 
5. External medical equipment of any kind used at home as post Hospitalization care including cost of instrument used in 
the treatment of Sleep Apnoea Syndrome (C.P.A.P), Continuous Peritoneal Ambulatory Dialysis (C.P.A.D) and Oxygen 
concentrator for Bronchial Asthmatic condition. 
6. Congenital external diseases or defects or anomalies, growth hormone therapy, stem cell implantation or surgery 
except for Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for hematological conditions. 
7. Intentional self-Injury (including but not limited to the use or misuse of any intoxicating drugs or alcohol) 
8. Vaccination or inoculation unless forming a part of post bite treatment or if medically necessary and forming a part of 
treatment recommended by the treating Medical Practitioner. 
9. All non-medical Items as per Annexure II 
10. Any treatment received outside India is not covered under this Policy. 
11. Circumcision unless required for the treatment of Illness or Accidental bodily Injury. 
12. Treatment for any other system other than modern medicine (allopathy) and AYUSH therapies 
 
SECTION E) GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES - STANDARD GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES 
 
1. Disclosure of information: 
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             16  
mis description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the policyholder. 
 
2. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability: 
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the Insured Person for the Company to make any payment for 
claim(s) arising under the policy 
 
3. Claim Settlement. (provision for Penal interest): 
i. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document. 
ii. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the policyholder from 
the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate. 
iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the Company, it shall initiate and 
complete such investigation at 
the earliest, in any case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document- ln such cases, the 
Company shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. 
iv. ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the policyholder at a rate 2% 
above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim. 
 
4. Complete Discharge: 
Any payment to the policyholder, Insured Person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representative or assignee or to 
the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the policy shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by 
the Company to the extent of that amount for the particular claim 
 
5. Multiple Policies: 
i. ln case of multiple policies taken by an Insured Person during a period from one or more insurers to indemnify treatment 
costs, the Insured Person shall have the right to require a settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. 
ln all such cases the insurer chosen by the Insured Person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is 
within the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen policy. 
ii. lnsured person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this policy for the amounts 
disallowed under any other policy / policies even if the Sum Insured is not exhausted. Then the insurer shall 
independently settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions of this policy. 
iii. lf the amount to be claimed exceeds the Sum Insured under a single policy, the Insured Person shall have the right 
to choose insurer from whom he/ she wants to claim the balance amount. 
iv. Where an Insured Person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity basis, the 
Insured Person shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
chosen policy. 
 
6. Fraud: 
i. If any claim made by the Insured Person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is made 
or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the Insured Person or anyone acting on 
his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be 
forfeited. 
ii. Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent later shall be repaid by 
all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and severally liable for such 
repayment to the insurer. 
iii. For the purpose of this clause, the expression “fraud” means any of the following acts committed by the Insured 
Person or by his agent or the hospital/ doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the Insured Person, with intent to  
deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an insurance policy: 
a. the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured Person does not believe to be true; 
b. the active concealment of a fact by the Insured Person having knowledge or belief of the fact; 
c. any other act fitted to deceive; and 
d. any such actor omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent 
 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit  the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if the Insured Person 
/ beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true  to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention 
to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer 
 
7. Cancellation: 
(A) Cancellation by the Policyholder  
The Policyholder can cancel this Policy by providing a written notice of 7 days. In such a case, the Company will refund 
the premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed below: Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             17  
 
1. Cancellation of policy where full premium received at policy inception -   
 Annual Policy: The premium refund for the unexpired risk period will be on a pro-rata basis, provided no claim has 
been made during the policy year. 
 Multi-year Policy: 
o For any policy year where the risk date has not yet started, the premium will be refunded without any deduction. 
o For any policy year where the risk has started, the premium will be refunded on a pro-rata basis for that policy 
year, provided no claim has been made during the policy year and in full for future policy years. 
 
2. Cancellation of policy where Premium Received on Instalment Basis 
The premium refund for the unexpired risk period will be on a pro-rata basis, provided no claim has been made during 
the policy year. 
 
(B) Additional Deductions - Notwithstanding the above, if (i) the risk under the Policy has already commenced, or (ii) only 
a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, and the option of Policy cancellation is exercised by the Policyholder, 
then expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the Poli cyholder will also be deducted before 
refunding of premium. 
 
(C) Cancellation by the Company 
The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on the grounds of misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material 
facts, or fraud by the Policyholder/insured person, by providing 15 days’ written notice. There will be no refund of 
premium for cancellations on these grounds. 
 
8. Migration: 
The Insured Person will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance products/plans offered by the 
Company by applying for migration of the policy at least 30 days before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI 
guidelines on Migration. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses 
under any health insurance product/plan offered by the company, the Insured Person will get the accrued continuity 
benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration. 
For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link :https://irdai.gov.in/document-detail?documentId=393128 
(Please note referred link is of the IRDAI website and subject to change from time to time.)  
 
9. Portability: 
The Insured Person will have the option to port the policy to other insurers by applying to such insurer to port the entire 
policy along with all the members of the family ,if any,at least45 days before, but not earlier than 60days from the policy  
renewal date as  per IRDAI guidelines related to portability. If such person is presently covered and has been 
continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance policy with an Indian General/Health insurer, the 
proposed Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on portability. 
For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link  :  https://irdai.gov.in/document-detail?documentId=393128 
(Please note referred link is of the IRDAI website and subject to change from time to time.)  
 
10. Renewal of Policy: 
1. Your Policy shall be renewable except on grounds of established fraud or non-disclosure or misrepresentation by 
You, provided this policy is not withdrawn and also subject to conditions stated at “Moratorium Period” of this 
Schedule. 
2. We shall not deny the renewal of this policy on the ground that You have made a claim or claims in the preceding 
policy years, except for benefit based policies where the policy terminates following payment of the benefit 
covered under the policy like critical illness policy. 
3. We shall condone a delay in renewal up to the Grace Period from the due date of renewal without considering 
such condonation as a Break in Policy. 
4. For this policy, the loadings on renewal premium shall be at portfolio and not based upon any individual policy 
claim experience. However, discount in premium may be provided by Us to You for good claims experience. 
5. We shall not resort to fresh underwriting by calling for medical examination, fresh proposal form etc. at renewal 
stage where there is no change in Sum Insured offered. Provided that where there is an improvement in the risk 
profile, We may endeavour to recognize that for removal of loadings at the point of renewal. 
 
11. Withdrawal of Policy: 
i. ln the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the Insured Person about the 
same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy. 
ii. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with the Company at the 
time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period. as per Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             18  
IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has been maintained without a break. 
 
12. Moratorium Period: 
After completion of sixty continuous months of coverage (including portability and  migration) in this Policy, no Policy 
and Claim shall be contestable by Us on grounds of non-disclosure, misrepresentation, except on grounds of 
established fraud.  
This period of sixty months is called as Moratorium Period. The Moratorium would be applicable for the Sums 
Insured of the first policy issued to You for this product.  
Wherever, the Sum Insured is enhanced, completion of sixty continuous months would be applicable from the date 
of enhancement of Sum Insured only on the enhanced limits. 
 
This policy would however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the policy contract. 
 
13. Premium Payment in Instalments (Wherever applicable): 
If the Insured Person has opted for Payment of Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Annual (for long term polices only), 
Half Yearly, Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, the following Conditions 
shall apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the policy) 
i. The grace period of fifteen days (where premium is paid on a monthly instalments) and thirty days (where premium 
is paid in quarterly/half-yearly/annual instalments) is available on the premium due date, to pay the premium.  
ii. If the policy is renewed during grace period, all the credits (sum insured, No Claim Bonus, Specific Waiting periods, 
waiting periods for pre-existing diseases, Moratorium period etc.) accrued under the policy shall be protected.  
iii. If the premium is paid in instalments during the policy period, coverage will be available for the grace period also. 
iv. The insured person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the “Waiting Periods”, “Specific Waiting Periods” 
in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated grace Period. 
v. No interest will be charged If the instalment premium is not paid on due date. 
vi. In case of instalment premium due not received within the grace period, the policy will get cancelled. 
vii. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become due and payable. 
viii. The company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending installments from the claim amount due under the policy. 
 
14. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy including the Premium Rates: 
The Company, with prior approval of lRDAl, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including the premium rates. 
The Insured Person shall be notified three months before the changes are effected. 
 
15. Free Look Period: 
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on renewals or at the time of 
porting/migrating the policy. The Insured Person shall be allowed free look period of Thirty days from date of receipt of 
the policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not acceptable. 
lf the Insured Person has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the Insured Person shall be entitled to 
i. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the Insured 
Person and the stamp duty charges or 
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by the Insured Person, a 
deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover or 
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium commensurate with the 
insurance coverage during such period 
 
16. Grievance Redressal Procedure: 
The company has always been known as a forward-looking customer centric organization. It takes immense pride in its 
approach of “Caringly Yours”. To provide you with top-notch service on all fronts, the company has provided with 
multiple platforms via which you can always reach out to us at below mentioned touch points 
1. Our toll-free number 1-800-209- 5858 or 020-30305858, say Say “Hi” on WhatsApp on +91 7507245858. 
2. Branches for resolution of your grievances / complaints, the Branch details can be found on our website 
www.bajajallianz.com/branch-locator.html 
3. Register your grievances / complaints on our website www.bajajallianz.com/about-us/customer-service.html   
4. E-mail: 
a. Level 1: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in and for senior citizens to seniorcitizen@bajajallianz.co.in  
b. Level 2: In case you are not satisfied with the response given to you at Level 1 you may write to our Grievance 
Redressal Officer at ggro@bajajallianz.co.in 
c. Level 3: If in case, your grievance is still not resolved, and you wish to talk to our care specialist, please give a 
missed call on +91 80809 45060 OR SMS To 575758 and our care specialist will call you back. 
5. If you are still not satisfied with the decision of the Insurance Company, you may approach the Insurance Ombudsman, 
established by the Central Government for redressal of grievance. Detailed process along with list of Ombudsman Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             19  
offices are available at www.cioins.co.in/ombudsman.html The contact details of the Ombudsman offices are 
mentioned in Annexure V 
 
17. Nomination: 
The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose of payment of claims under 
the policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of nomination shall be communicated to the company 
in writing and such change shall be effective only when an endorsement on the policy is made. ln the event of death 
of the policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement 
(if any) and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the policyholder whose 
discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the policy. 
 
SECTION E) GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES – SPECIFIC TERMS AND CLAUSES 
 
17. Cancellation: 
The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 7 days’ written notice and in such an event, the Company shall 
refund premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed below. 
• Cancellation for premium received on annual basis or full premium received at policy inception are as under 
a. Annual policy – Premium refunded for unexpired risk would be on pro rata basis 
b. Multi-year policy   
i. Premium for any policy year where the risk date is yet to start would be refunded without any deduction 
ii. Premium for policy year where risk has started then premium will be refunded on pro-rata basis for that policy 
year and full for future policy years. 
• Cancellation for premium received on instalment basis shall be refunded for unexpired risk on pro rata basis 
 
18. Conditions Precedent: 
Where this Policy requires You to do or not to do something, then the complete satisfaction of that requirement by You or 
someone claiming on Your behalf is a precondition to any obligation We have under this Policy. If Your someone claiming 
on Your behalf fails to completely satisfy that requirement, then We may refuse to consider Your claim. 
 
19. Insured: 
Only those persons named as the insured in the Policy Schedule shall be covered under this Policy. Cover under this 
Policy shall be withdrawn from any Insured Person upon such Insured Person giving 14 days written notice to be 
received by Us. 
 
20. Communications: 
Any communication meant for Us must be in writing and be delivered to Our address shown in the Schedule. Any 
communication meant for You will be sent by Us to Your address shown in the Schedule. 
 
21. Paying a Claim: 
i. You agree that  We need only make payment when You or some one claiming on Your behalf has provided Us with 
necessary documentation and information. 
ii. If the insurer, for any reasons decides to reject the  claim under the Policy the reasons regarding the rejection shall be 
communicated to the Insured Person in writing within 30 days of the receipt of documents. The Insured Person 
may take recourse to  the Grievance Redressal procedure stated under Policy. 
 
22. Basis of Claims Payment: 
i. If You suffer a relapse within 45 days of the date when You last obtained medical treatment or consulted a Medical 
Practitioner and for which a claim has been made, then such relapse shall be deemed to be part of the same claim. 
ii. The day care procedures listed are subject to the exclusions, terms and conditions of the Policy and will not be treated 
as independent coverage under the Policy. 
iii. Notwithstanding what is mentioned in clause 12 of SECTION E) GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES - 
STANDARD GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES or any other clauses of this Policy: 
a) In-patient Treatment for Mental Illness: (As specified in Annexure IV) shall be covered up to Base Sum 
Insured subject to Policy Terms, Conditions, coverages, Waiting Period and exclusions. 
b) Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies (as per list in Annexure III) shall be covered 
up to Base Sum Insured, subject to Policy Terms, Conditions, coverages, Waiting Period and exclusions. 
iv. We shall make payment in Indian Rupees only. 
 
23. Cost Sharing and Sub limits: 
i. Voluntary co-payment: If opted voluntarily by You, You shall bear 10%/ 20% of co-payment for each and every 
claim payable under the In-patient Hospitalization Treatment section and Our liability, if any, shall only be in excess Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             20  
of that sum. Voluntary Co payment will not be applied on the claim related to procedures for which sublimit is 
already applied as per policy terms and conditions  
ii. Voluntary Aggregate Deductible:  
We shall pay Reasonable & Customary Medical Expenses in respect of an admissible Hospitalization claim in 
excess of the Annual Aggregate Deductible limit of ₹ 50,000 / ₹ 100000 / ₹ 200000 / ₹ 300000, as opted by You , 
subject to the ”In-patient Hospitalization Treatment” section  Sum Insured, terms, conditions and definitions, 
exclusions contained or otherwise. The deductible is applicable in aggregate towards all claims falling under ”In-
patient Hospitalization Treatment”  Sum Insured incurred during the policy period.  
This Deductible will not be applied on the claim admissible under Maternity and New Born Baby Cover. 
iii. Cataract Limit : Our obligation to make payment in respect of surgeries for cataracts (after the expiry of the 24 
months period referred to in Exclusion 02 ) above, shall be restricted to 20% of the Sum Insured for each eye, 
subject to maximum of Rs 1,00,000/- for each of You. 
iv. Bariatric Surgery Limit: Our obligation to make payment in respect of Bariatric Surgery after the expiry of the 36 
months period, shall be restricted to 25% of the Sum Insured in Silver Plan and 50% of the Sum Insured subject to 
maximum of Rs 5 lac in Gold and Platinum Plan. 
v. Maternity Limit: Maternity is covered under Gold & Platinum plan only 
a. For Sum Insured 3 lacs up to 7.5 lacs the limit for Normal delivery is ₹ 15000  & ₹ 25000 for caesarian delivery. 
b. For Sum Insured Above ₹ 7.5 lacs the limit for Normal delivery is ₹ 25000 & ₹ 35000 for caesarian delivery. 
 
24. Cumulative Bonus for Silver and Gold Plan: 
If You renew Your “ Health Guard” with Us without any break and there has been no claim in the preceding year, We will 
increase the Limit of Indemnity by 10% of base Sum Insured per annum, but: 
i. The maximum cumulative increase in the Limit of Indemnity for Silver and Gold will be limited to 10 years and 100% of 
base Sum Insured of Your first “Health Guard” with Us. 
ii. This clause does not alter the annual character of this insurance 
iii. If a claim is made in any year where a cumulative increase has been applied, then the increased Limit of Indemnity in 
the Policy Period of the subsequent “Health Guard” shall be reduced by 10%, savethat the limit of indemnity 
applicable to Yourfirst “ Health Guard” with Us shall be preserved. 
 
25. Nationality: 
• Indian nationals residing in India would be considered for this Policy. 
• This Policy can be opted by Non-Resident Indians also and premium paid in Indian currency 
 
26. Endorsements: 
This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be changed by anyone (including an 
insurance agent or broker) except by the Insurer. Any change that the Insurer make will be evidenced by a written 
Endorsement signed and stamped by the Insurer. 
 
27. Discounts: 
i. Family Discount: 10% family discount shall be offered if 2 eligible Family Members are covered under a single Policy 
and 15 % if more than 2 of any of the eligible Family Members are covered under a single Policy. Moreover, this family 
discount will be offered for both new policies as well as for renewal policies. Family discount is not applicable to Health 
Guard Floater Policies. 
ii. Employee Discount: 20% discount on published premium rates to employees of Bajaj Allianz & its group 
companies, this discount is applicable only if the Policy is booked in direct code. 
iii. Online/Direct Business Discount: Discount of 5% will be offered in this product for policies underwritten through 
direct/online channel. 
           Note: this discount is not applicable for Employees who get employee discount 
iv. Co-pay Discount: 
a. If opted voluntarily and mentioned on the Policy Schedule that a Co-payment is effective by the Insured 
Person then Insured Person will be eligible of additional 10% or 20% discount on the Policy premium. 
b. If a claim has been admitted under Section C 1)In-patient Hospitalization Treatment then, the Insured 
Person shall bear 10% or 20% respectively of the eligible claim amount payable under this section and Our 
liability, if any, shall only be in excess of that sum and would be subject to the Sum Insured. 
v. Long Term Policy Discount: 
a. 4 % discount is applicable if Policy is opted for 2 years 
b. 8 % discount is applicable if Policy is opted for 3 years 
        Note: This will not apply to policies where premium is paid in instalments. 
vi. Room Rent capping discount: 
        If You opt for this cover You will be entitled for a per day room rent limit of 1.5% of hospitalization Sum Insured up to 
maximum ₹ 7,500 per day. By opting for this cover You will be eligible for discount on premium as per below grid- Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             21  
 
Base SI  Gold Plan  Platinum Plan 
₹ 300,000 and above 5% 8% 
 
Note: 
a. The room rent does not include nursing charges. 
b. If the availed room category is higher than the eligible room category or if the room rent opted exceeds the eligible room 
rent then, a proportionate co- payment would be applied on all the expenses of the hospitalization except for cost 
of Medical consumables and Medicines. 
 
vii. Wellness Discount 
As detailed in Section C. 12, depending on number of parameters met by Insured Person during a policy year 
discount will be offered on subsequent renewal premium. Note- If an Insured meets 8 out of 8 abovementioned 
parameters and he/she walks for 10000 steps for 20 days every month then they will be eligible for additional 
discount of 2.5%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note- If an Insured Person meets 8 out of 8 above mentioned parameters and he/she walks for 10000 steps for 20 days 
every month then they will be eligible for additional discount of 2.5%. 
viii. Zone Discount 
a. If You opt for coverage under Zone B, then You will be eligible for 20% discount on the premium 
b. If You opt for coverage under Zone C, then You will be eligible for 30% discount on the premium 
 
28. Premium payment Zone: 
i. Zone A 
Delhi / NCR, Mumbai including (Navi Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan), Hyderabad and Secunderabad, Kolkata, 
Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Surat. 
ii. Zone B 
Rest of India apart, from the states/UTs/cities classified under Zone A and Zone C, are classified as Zone B. 
iii. Zone C 
Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Chandigarh, Chattisgarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, 
Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizo- ram,Nagaland, Odisha, Punjab, Sikkim, Tripura, 
Uttarakhand 
 
Note:- 
 Policyholders paying Zone A premium rates can avail treatment allover India without any co-payment. 
 Those, who pay Zone B premium rates and avail treatment in Zone A city will have to pay 15% co-payment on 
admissible claim amount. 
 Those, who pay Zone C premium rates and avail treatment in Zone A city will have to pay 20% co-payment on 
admissible claim amount. 
 Those, who pay Zone C premium rates and avail treatment in Zone B city will have to pay 5% co-payment on 
admissible claim amount 
 This Co – payment will not be applicable for Accidental Hospitalization cases. 
 Policyholder residing in Zone B and Zone C can choose to pay premium for Zone A and avail treatment all over India 
without any co-payment. 
 If opted for coverage under Zone B, then Insured Person will be eligible for 20% discount on the premium. 
 If opted for coverage under Zone C, then Insured Person will be eligible for 30% discount on the premium 
 
29. Sum Insured Enhancement: 
i. The Insured Person can apply for enhancement of Sum Insured at the time of renewal. You can apply for 
enhancement of Sum Insured by submitting a fresh proposal form to the Company. 
ii. The acceptance of enhancement of Sum Insured would be at the discretion of the Company, based on the health 
condition of the Insured Person(s) & claim history of the Policy. 
iii. All waiting periods as defined in the Policy shall apply for this enhanced Sum Insured limit from the effective date of 
enhancement of such Sum Insured considering such Policy Period as the first Policy with the Company. 
Parameters Achieved Discount 
4 out of 8 5% 
6 out of 8 7.5% 
8 out of 8 10% Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             22  
 
30. Inclusion of members under the Policy: 
Where an Insured Person is added to this Policy, either by way of Endorsement or at the time of renewal, the pre-
existing disease clause, exclusions and waiting periods will be applicable considering such Policy Year as the first year 
of Policy with the Company for the Insured Person 
 
31. Territorial Limits & Governing Law 
i. We cover Medical Expenses for treatment availed within India only. Our liability to make any payment shall be to 
make payment within India and in Indian Rupees only. 
ii. The Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. No change or alteration shall be valid or effective unless 
approved in writing by Us, which approval shall be evidenced by an Endorsement on the Schedule. 
iii. The construction, interpretation and meaning of the provisions of this Policy shall be determined in accordance with 
Indian law. The section headings of this Policy are included for descriptive purposes only and do not form part of 
this Policy for the purpose of its construction or interpretation. 
 
32. Arbitration and Reconciliation 
Arbitration Clause shall not be applicable 
 
SECTION E) GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES -OTHER TERMS AND CLAUSES 
 
33. Claims Procedure 
All Claims will be settled by In house claims settlement team of the Company and no TPA is engaged. However the 
Company reserves to engage TPA at any time, at the sole discretion of the Company. 
If You meet with any Accidental Bodily Injury or suffer an Illness that may result in a claim, then as a condition precedent 
to Our liability, You must comply with the following: 
 
A. Cashless Claims Procedure: 
Cashless treatment is only available at Network Hospitals. In order to avail of cashless treatment, the following 
procedure must be followed by You: 
i. For planned treatment or Hospitalization, prior to taking treatment and/or incurring Medical Expenses at a Network 
Hospital, You or Your representative must intimate Us 48 hours before the planned Hospitalization and request pre-
authorization by way of the written form. 
ii. After considering Your request and after obtaining any further information or documentation We have sought, We may, 
if satisfied, send You or the Network Hospital, an authorization letter. The authorization letter, the ID card issued to 
You along with this Policy and any other information or documentation that We have specified must be produced 
to the Network Hospital identified in the pre-authorization letter at the time of Your admission to the same. 
iii. If the procedure above is followed, You will not be required to directly pay for the bill amount in the Network Hospital that 
We are liable under Section C1-In- Patient Hospitalization Treatment above and the original bills and evidence of 
treatment in respect of the same shall be left with the Network Hospital. Pre- authorization does not guarantee that 
all costs and expenses will be covered. We reserve the right to review each claim for Medical Expenses and 
accordingly coverage will be determined according to the terms and conditions of this Policy. 
iv. In case any treatment or procedure is to be taken on an Emergency basis, You or Your representative must intimate 
Us in writing immediately within 24 hours of hospitalization. 
 
B. Reimbursement Claims Procedure: 
If Pre-authorization as per Cashless Claims Procedure above is denied by Us or if treatment is taken ina Hospital other 
than a Network Hospital or if You do not wish to avail cashless facility, then: 
i. You or some one claiming on Your behalf must inform Us in writing immediately within 48 hours of hospitalization in 
case of emergency hospitalization and 48 hours prior to hospitalization in case of planned hospitalization 
ii. You must immediately consult a Medical Practitioner and follow the advice and treatment that he recommends. 
iii. You must take reasonable steps or measures to minimize the quantum of any claim that may be made under this 
Policy. 
iv. You must have Yourself examined by Our medical advisors if We ask for this, and as often as We consider this to be 
necessary at our cost 
v. You or someone claiming on Your behalf must promptly and in any event within 30 days of discharge from a Hospital 
give Us the documentation as listed out in greater detail below and other information We ask for to investigate the 
claim or Our obligation to make payment for it. 
vi. In the event of the death of the Insured Person, someone claiming on his behalf must inform Us in writing 
immediately and send Us a copy of the post mortem report (if any) within 30 days. 
vii. If the original documents are submitted with the co-insurer, the Xerox  copies attested by the co-insurer should be 
submitted Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             23  
 
* Note: In case You are claiming for the same event under an indemnity based Policy of another insurer and are required 
to submit the original documents related to Your treatment with that particular insurer, then You may provide Us with the 
attested Xerox copies of such documents along with a declaration from the particular insurer specifying the availability of 
the original copies of the specified treatment documents with it. 
**Note: Waiver of conditions (i) and (vi) may be considered in extreme cases of hardship where it is proved to Our 
satisfaction that under the circumstances in which You were placed, it was not possible for You or any other person to 
give notice or file claim within the prescribed time limit. 
 
List of Claim documents: 
 Claim form with NEFT details & cancelled cheque duly signed by Insured Person 
 Original/Attested copies of Discharge Summary / Discharge Certificate / Death Summary with Surgical & 
anesthetics notes 
 Attested copies of Indoor case papers, if available 
 Original/Attested copies Final Hospital Bill with break up of surgical charges, surgeon’s fees, OT charges etc 
 Original Paid Receipt against the final Hospital Bill. 
 Original bills towards Investigations done / Laboratory Bills. 
 Original/Attested copies of Investigation Reports against Investigations done. 
 Original bills and receipts paid for the transportation from Registered Ambulance Service Provider. Treating Medical 
Practitioner certificate to transfer the Injured person to a  higher medical Centre for further treatment (if 
Applicable). 
 Cashless settlement letter or other company settlement letter 
 First consultation letter for the current ailment. 
 In case of implant surgery, invoice & sticker. 
 
 
Please send the documents on below address Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd. 2nd Floor, Bajaj Finserv 
Building, 
Behind Weikfield IT park, 
Off Nagar Road, Viman Nagar 
Pune 411014| Toll free: 1800-209-5858, 1800-209-0144 
 
 
Annexure I- 
List of Day Care Procedures 
 
ENT General Surgery 
1 Stapedotomy 204 Infected Keloid Excision 
2 Myringoplasty(Type I 
Tympanoplasty) 
205 Incision of a pilonidal sinus / 
abscess 3 Revision stapedectomy 206 Axillary lymphadenectomy 
4 Labyrinthectomy for severe 
Vertigo 
207 Wound debridement and Cover 
5 Stapedectomy under GA 208 Abscess-Decompression 
6 Ossiculoplasty 209 Cervical lymphadenectomy 
7 Myringotomy with Grommet 
Insertion 
210 infected sebaceous cyst 
8 Tympanoplasty (Type III) 211 Inguinal lymphadenectomy 
9 Stapedectomy under LA 212 Incision and drainage of Abscess 
10 Revision of the fenestration 
of the inner ear. 
213 Suturing of lacerations 
11 Tympanoplasty (Type IV) 214 Scalp Suturing 
12 Endolymphatic Sac Surgery 
for Meniere's Disease 
215 Infected lipoma excision 
13 Turbinectomy 216 Maximal anal dilatation 
14 Removal of Tympanic Drain 
under LA 
217 Piles 
15 Endoscopic Stapedectomy  A)Injection  Sclerotherapy 
16 Fenestration of the inner ear  B)Piles banding 
17 Incision and drainage of 
perichondritis 
218 Liver Abscess- catheter drainage 
18 Septoplasty 219 Fissure in Ano- fissurectomy 
19 Vestibular Nerve section 220 Fibroadenoma breast excision Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             24  
20 Thyroplasty Type I 221   OesophagealvaricesSclerotherapy  
21 Pseudocyst of the Pinna - 
Excision 
222 ERCP - pancreatic duct stone 
removal 22 Incision and drainage - 
Haematoma Auricle 
223 Perianal abscess I&D 
23 Tympanoplasty (Type II) 224 Perianal hematoma Evacuation 
24 Keratosis removal under GA 225 Fissure in anosphincterotomy 
25 Reduction of fracture of 
Nasal Bone 
226 UGI scopy and 
Polypectomyoesophagus 26 Excision and destruction of 
lingual tonsils 
227 Breast abscess I& D 
27 Conchoplasty 228 Feeding Gastrostomy 
28 Thyroplasty Type II 229 Oesophagoscopy and biopsy of 
growth oesophagus 29 Tracheostomy 230 UGI scopy and injection of 
adrenaline, sclerosants - bleeding 
ulcers 
30 Excision of Angioma Septum 231 ERCP - Bile duct stone removal 
31 Turbinoplasty 232 Ileostomy closure 
32 Incision & Drainage of Retro 
Pharyngeal Abscess 
233 Colonoscopy 
33   UvuloPalatoPharyngoPlasty 234 Polypectomy colon 
34 Palatoplasty 235 Splenic abscesses Laparoscopic 
Drainage 35 Tonsillectomy without 
adenoidectomy 
236 UGI SCOPY and Polypectomy 
stomach 36 Adenoidectomy with 
Grommet insertion 
237 Rigid Oesophagoscopy for FB 
removal 37 Adenoidectomy without 
Grommet insertion 
238 Feeding Jejunostomy 
38 Vocal Cord lateralisation 
Procedure 
239 Colostomy 
39 Incision & Drainage of Para 
Pharyngeal Abscess 
240 Ileostomy 
40 Transoral incision and 
drainage of a pharyngeal 
abscess 
241 colostomy closure 
41 Tonsillectomywith 
adenoidectomy 
242 Submandibular salivary duct stone 
removal 42 Tracheoplasty Ophthalmology 243 Pneumatic reduction of 
intussusception 43 Incision of tear glands 244 Varicoseveins legs - Injection 
sclerotherapy 44 Other operation on the tear 
ducts 
245 Rigid Oesophagoscopy for 
Plummer vinson syndrome 45 Incision of diseased eyelids 246 Pancreatic Pseudocysts 
Endoscopic Drainage 46 Excision and destruction of 
the diseased tissue of the eyelid 
247 ZADEK's Nail bed excision 
47 Removal of foreign body 
from the lens of the eye. 
248 Subcutaneous mastectomy 
48 Corrective surgery of the 
entropion and ectropion 
249 Excision of Ranula under GA 
49 Operations forpterygium 250 Rigid Oesophagoscopy for dilation 
of benign Strictures 50 Corrective surgery of 
blepharoptosis 
251 Eversion of Sac 
51 Removal of foreign body 
from conjunctiva 
a) Unilateral 
52 Biopsy of tear gland b)Bilateral 
53 Removal of Foreign body 
from cornea 
252 Lord's plication 
54 Incision of the cornea 253 Jaboulay's Procedure 
55 Other operations on the 
cornea 
254 Scrotoplasty 
56 Operation on the canthus 
and epicanthus 
255 Surgical treatment of varicocele 
57 Removal of foreign body 
from the orbit and the eye ball. 
256 Epididymectomy 
58 Surgery for cataract 257 Circumcision for Trauma 
59 Treatment of retinal lesion 258 Meatoplasty 
60 Removal of foreign body 
from the posterior chamber of 
the 
259 Intersphincteric abscess incision and 
drainage Oncology 260 Psoas Abscess Incision and 
Drainage 61 IV Push Chemotherapy 261 Thyroid abscess Incision and 
Drainage 62 HBI-Hemibody Radiotherapy 262 TIPS procedure for portal 
hypertension 63 Infusional Targetedtherapy 263 Esophageal Growth stent 
64 SRT-Stereotactic Arc 
Therapy 
264 PAIR Procedure of Hydatid Cyst 
liver 65 SC administration of Growth 
Factors 
265 Tru cut liver biopsy 
66 Continuous Infusional 
Chemotherapy 
266 Photodynamic therapy or 
esophageal tumour and Lung tumour 67 Infusional Chemotherapy 267 Excision of Cervical RIB Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             25  
68 CCRT-Concurrent Chemo + 
RT 
268  laparoscopic reduction of 
intussusception 69 2D Radiotherapy 269  Microdochectomy breast 
70 3D Conformal Radiotherapy 270 Surgery for fracture Penis 
71 IGRT- Image Guided 
Radiotherapy 
271 Sentinel node biopsy 
72 IMRT- Step & Shoot 272 Parastomal hernia 
73 Infusional Bisphosphonates 273 Revision colostomy 
74 IMRT- DMLC 274 Prolapsed colostomy- Correction 
75 Rotational Arc Therapy 275 Testicular biopsy 
76  Tele gamma therapy 276 laparoscopic cardiomyotomy( 
Hellers) 77 FSRT-Fractionated SRT 277 Sentinel node biopsy malignant 
melanoma 78 VMAT-Volumetric Modulated 
Arc Therapy 
278  laparoscopic pyloromyotomy( 
Ramstedt) 79 SBRT-Stereotactic Body 
Radiotherapy 
Orthopedics 
80 Helical Tomotherapy 279 Arthroscopic Repair of ACL tear 
knee 81 SRS-Stereotactic 
Radiosurgery 
280 Closed reduction of minor Fractures 
82 X-Knife SRS 281 Arthroscopic repair of PCL tear knee 
83 Gammaknife SRS 282 Tendon shortening 
84 TBI- Total Body Radiotherapy 283 Arthroscopic Meniscectomy - Knee 
85 intraluminal Brachytherapy 284 Treatment of clavicle dislocation 
86 Electron Therapy 285 Arthroscopicmeniscus repair 
87 TSET-Total Electron Skin 
Therapy 
286 Haemarthrosis knee- lavage 
88 Extracorporeal Irradiation of 
Blood Products 
287 Abscess knee joint drainage 
89 Telecobalt Therapy 288 Carpal tunnel release 
90 Telecesium Therapy 289 Closed reduction of minor 
dislocation 91 Externalmould 
Brachytherapy 
290 Repair of knee cap tendon 
92 Interstitial Brachytherapy 291 ORIF with K wire fixation- small 
bones 93 Intracavity Brachytherapy 292 Release of midfoot joint 
94 3D Brachytherapy 293 ORIF with plating- Small long bones 
95 Implant Brachytherapy 294 Implant removal minor 
96 Intravesical Brachytherapy 295 K wire removal 
97 Adjuvant Radiotherapy 296 POP application 
98 Afterloading Catheter 
Brachytherapy 
297 Closed reduction and external 
fixation 99 Conditioning Radiothearpy for 
BMT 
298 Arthrotomy Hip joint 
100 Extracorporeal Irradiation to 
the Homologous Bone grafts 
299 Syme's amputation 
101 Radical chemotherapy 300 Arthroplasty 
102 Neoadjuvant radiotherapy 301 Partial removal of rib 
103 LDR Brachytherapy 302 Treatment of sesamoid bone 
fracture 104 Palliative Radiotherapy 303 Shoulder arthroscopy/ surgery 
105 Radical Radiotherapy 304 Elbow arthroscopy 
106 Palliative chemotherapy 305 Amputation of metacarpal bone 
107 Template Brachytherapy 306 Release of thumb contracture 
108 Neoadjuvant chemotherapy 307 Incision of foot fascia 
109 Adjuvant chemotherapy 308 calcaneum spur hydrocort injection 
110 Induction chemotherapy 309 Ganglion wrist hyalase injection 
111 Consolidation 
chemotherapy 
310 Partial removal of metatarsal 
112 Maintenance chemotherapy 311 Repair / graft of foot tendon 
113 HDR Brachytherapy 312 Revision/Removal of Kneecap 
Plastic Surgery 313 Amputation follow-up surgery 
114 Construction skin pedicle 
flap 
314 Exploration of ankle joint 
115 Gluteal pressureulcer-
Excision 
315 Remove/graft leg bone lesion Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             26  
116 Muscle-skin graft, leg 316 Repair/graft achilles tendon 
117 Removal of bone for graft 317 Remove of tissue expander 
118 Muscle-skin graft duct 
fistula 
318 Biopsy elbow joint lining 
119 Removal cartilage graft 319 Removal of wrist prosthesis 
120 Myocutaneous flap 320 Biopsy finger joint lining 
121 Fibro myocutaneous flap 321 Tendon lengthening 
122 Breast reconstruction 
surgery after mastectomy 
322 Treatment of shoulder dislocation 
123 Sling operation for facial 
palsy 
323 Lengthening of hand tendon 
124 Split Skin Grafting under 
RA 
324 Removal of elbow bursa 
125 Wolfe skin graft 325 Fixation of knee joint 
126 Plastic surgery to the floor 
of the mouth under GA 
326 Treatment of foot dislocation 
Urology 327 Surgery of bunion 
127 AV fistula - wrist 328 intra articular steroid injection 
128 URSL with stenting 329 Tendontransfer procedure 
129 URSLwith lithotripsy 330 Removal of knee cap bursa 
130  CystoscopicLitholapaxy 331 Treatment of fracture of ulna 
131  ESWL 332 Treatment of scapula fracture 
132 Haemodialysis 333 Removal of tumor of arm/ elbow 
under RA/GA 133 Bladder Neck Incision 334 Repair of ruptured tendon 
134 Cystoscopy & Biopsy 335 Decompress forearm space 
135 Cystoscopy and removal of 
polyp 
336 Revision of neck muscle ( Torticollis 
release ) 136 Suprapubiccystostomy 337 Lengthening of thigh tendons 
137 percutaneous nephrostomy 338 Treatment fracture of radius & ulna 
139 Cystoscopy and "SLING" 
procedure. 
339 Repair of knee joint Paediatric 
surgery 140 TUNA- prostate 340 Excision Juvenile polyps rectum 
141 Excision of urethral 
diverticulum 
341 Vaginoplasty 
142 Removal of urethral Stone 342 Dilatation of accidental 
causticstrictureoesophageal 143 Excision of urethral 
prolapse 
343 PresacralTeratomas Excision 
144  Mega-ureter reconstruction 344 Removal of vesical stone 
145 Kidney renoscopy and 
biopsy 
345 Excision Sigmoid Polyp 
146 Ureter endoscopy and 
treatment 
346 SternomastoidTenotomy 
147 Vesicoureteric reflux 
correction 
347 Infantile Hypertrophic Pyloric 
Stenosis pyloromyotomy 148 Surgery forpelvi ureteric 
junction obstruction 
348 Excision of soft tissue 
rhabdomyosarcoma 149 Andersonhynesoperation  349 Mediastinal lymph node biopsy 
150 Kidney endoscopy and 
biopsy 
350 High Orchidectomy for testis 
tumours 151 Paraphimosis surgery 351 Excision of cervical teratoma 
152 Injury prepuce- 
circumcision 
352  Rectal-Myomectomy 
153 Frenular tearrepair 353 Rectal prolapse (Delorme's 
procedure) 154 Meatotomy for meatal 
stenosis 
354 Orchidopexy for undescended 
testis 155 surgery for fournier's 
gangrene scrotum 
355 Detorsion of torsion Testis 
156 surgery filarial scrotum 356 lap.Abdominal exploration in 
cryptorchidism 157 surgery for watering can 
perineum 
  
357 EUA + biopsy multiple fistula in ano 
158 Repair of penile torsion 358 Cystic hygroma - Injection treatment 
159 Drainage of prostate 
abscess 
359 Excision of fistula-in-ano 
160 Orchiectomy Gynaecology 
161 Cystoscopy and removal of 
FB 
360 Hysteroscopic removal of myoma 
Neurology 361 D&C 
162 Facial nerve physiotherapy 362 Hysteroscopic resection of septum 
163 Nerve biopsy 363 thermal Cauterisation of Cervix Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             27  
164 Muscle biopsy 364 MIRENA insertion 
165 Epidural steroid injection 365 Hysteroscopicadhesiolysis 
166 Glycerol rhizotomy 366 LEEP 
167 Spinal cord stimulation 367 Cryocauterisation of Cervix 
168 Motor cortex stimulation 368 Polypectomy Endometrium 
169 Stereotactic Radiosurgery 369 Hysteroscopic resection of fibroid 
170 Percutaneous Cordotomy 370 LLETZ 
171 Intrathecal Baclofen therapy 371 Conization 
172 Entrapment neuropathy 
Release 
372 polypectomy cervix 
173 Diagnostic cerebral 
angiography 
373 Hysteroscopic resection of 
endometrial polyp 174 VP shunt 374 Vulval wart excision 
175 Ventriculoatrialshunt 375 Laparoscopic paraovarian cyst 
excision Thoracic surgery 376 uterine artery embolization 
176 Thoracoscopy and Lung 
Biopsy 
377 Bartholin Cyst excision 
177 Excision of cervical 
sympathetic Chain 
Thoracoscopic 
378 Laparoscopic cystectomy 
178 Laser Ablation of Barrett's 
oesophagus 
379 Hymenectomy( imperforate Hymen) 
179 Pleurodesis 380 Endometrial ablation 
180 Thoracoscopy and pleural 
biopsy 
381 vaginal wall cyst excision 
181 EBUS + Biopsy 382 Vulval cyst Excision 
182 Thoracoscopy ligation 
thoracic duct 
383 Laparoscopic paratubal cyst 
excision 183 Thoracoscopy assisted 
empyaema drainage 
384 Repair of vagina ( vaginal atresia ) 
Gastroenterology 385 Hysteroscopy, removal of myoma 
184 Pancreatic pseudocyst EUS 
& drainage 
386 TURBT 
185 RF ablation for 
barrett'sOesophagus 
387 Ureterocoele repair - congenital 
internal 186 ERCP and papillotomy 388 Vaginal mesh For POP 
187 Esophagoscope and 
sclerosant injection 
389 Laparoscopic Myomectomy 
188 EUS + submucosal 
resection 
390 Surgery for SUI 
189 Construction of 
gastrostomytube 
391 Repair recto- vagina fistula 
190 EUS + aspiration 
pancreatic cyst 
392 Pelvic floor repair( excluding Fistula 
repair) 191 Small bowel endoscopy 
(therapeutic) 
393 URS + LL 
192 Colonoscopy ,lesion 
removal 
394 Laparoscopic oophorectomy 
193 ERCP Critical care 
194 Colonscopy stenting of 
stricture 
395 Insert non- tunnel CV cath 
195 Percutaneous Endoscopic 
Gastrostomy 
396 Insert PICC cath ( peripherally 
inserted central catheter ) 196 EUS and pancreatic pseudo 
cyst drainage 
397 Replace PICC cath ( peripherally 
inserted central catheter ) 197 ERCP and 
choledochoscopy 
398 Insertion catheter, intra anterior 
198 Proctosigmoidoscopy 
volvulus detorsion 
399 Insertion of Portacath 
199 ERCP and sphincterotomy  
200 Esophageal stent 
placement 
 
201 ERCP + placement of 
biliary stents 
 
202 Sigmoidoscopy w / stent  
 203 US + coeliac node biopsy  
 
 
(i) The standard exclusions and waiting periods are applicable to all of the above procedures depending on the 
medical condition/disease under treatment. Only 24 hours hospitalization is not mandatory. 
 
 
 
 
 Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             28  
 
 
Annexure II: 
List I: List of Non-Medical Items 
 
SL 
N
o 
Item  
1 BABY FOOD Not Payable 
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES Not Payable 
3 BEAUTY SERV ICES Not Payable 
4 BELTS/ BRACES Not Payable 
5 BUDS Not Payable 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK Not Payable 
7 CARRY BAGS Not Payable 
8 EMAIL I INTERNET CHARGES Not Payable 
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN 
PATIENT's DIETPROVIDED BY 
HOSPITA L) 
Not Payable 
10 LEGGINGS Essential in bariatric 
and varicose vein 
surgery and should 
be considered for 
these conditions 
where surgery itself is 
payable. 11 LAUNDRY CHARGES Not Payable 
12 MINERAL WATER Not Payable 
13 SANITARY PAD Not Payable 
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES Not Payable 
15 GUEST SERVICES Not Payable 
16 CREPE BANDAGE Not Payable 
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE Not Payable 
18 EYELET COLLAR Not Payable 
19 SLINGS Not Payable 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS 
MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES 
Not Payable 
21 SERVICECHARGES WHERE 
NURSINGCHARGES 
ALSOCHARGED 
Not Payable 
22 TELEVISION CHARGES Not Payable 
23 SURCHA RGES Not Payable 
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES Not Payable 
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER 
THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF 
BED CHARGE) 
Not Payable 
26 BIRTH  CERTIFICATE Not Payable 
27 CERTIFICATE  CHARGES Not Payable 
28 COURIER  CHARGES Not Payable 
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES Not Payable 
30 MEDICAL  CERTIFICATE Not Payable 
31 MEDICAL RECORDS Not Payable 
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES Not Payable 
33 MORTUARY CHARGES Not Payable 
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES Not Payable 
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE 
OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL) 
Not Payable 
36 SPACER Not Payable 
37 SPIROMETRE Not Payable 
38 NEBULIZER KIT Not Payable Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             29  
39 STEAM INHALER Not Payable 
40 ARMSLING Not Payable 
41 THERMOMETER Not Payable 
42 CERVICAL COLLAR Not Payable 
43 SPLINT Not Payable 
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR Not Payable 
45 KNEEBRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ 
HINGED) 
Not Payable 
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/S HOULDER 
IMMOBILIZER 
Not Payable 
47 LUMBOSACRAL BELT Not Payable 
48 NIMBUSBED OR WATER OR 
AIRBEDCHARGES  
Not Payable 
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR Not Payable 
50 AMBULANCE  EQUIPMENT Not Payable 
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER Not Payable 
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES - SPECIAL 
NURSING CHARGES 
Not Payable 
53 SUGAR FREE TABLETS Not Payable 
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries 
are not payable, only prescribed 
Not Payable 
55 ECG ELECTRODES Not Payable 
56 GLOVES Not Payable 
57 NEBULISATION  KIT Not Payable 
58 ANY KITWITH NO DETAILS 
MENTIONED [DELIVERYKIT, 
ORTHOKIT , 
Not Payable 
59 KIDNEY TRAY Not Payable 
60 MASK Not Payable 
61 OUNCE GLASS Not Payable 
62 OXYGEN MASK Not Payable 
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT Not Payable 
64 PAN CAN Not Payable 
65 TROLLY COVER Not Payable 
66 UROMETER , URINE JUG Not Payable 
68 VASOFIX SAFETY Not Payable 
 
List ll - ltems that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
 
S. No. Item 
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED /INDICATED) 
2 HANDWASH 
3 SHOE COVER 
4 CAPS 
5 CARDLE CHARGES 
6 COMB 
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE/ROOM   FRESHNERS 
8 FOOT COVER 
9 GOWN 
10 SLIPPERS 
11 TISSUE PAPPER 
12 TOOTH PASTE 
13 TOOTH BRUSH 
14 BED PAN 
15 FACE MASK 
16 FLEXI MASK Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             30  
17 HAND HOLDER 
18 SPUTUM CUP 
19 DISINEFCTANT LOTIONS 
20 LUXURY TAX 
21 HVAC 
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES 
25 CLEAN SHEET 
26 BLANKET/WARMER  BLANKET 
27 ADMISSION KIT 
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 
29 DOCUMENTATION  CHARGES/ADMINISTRATIVE  EXPENSES  
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES 
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES  
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES 
35 INCTDENTAL EXPENSES / MtSC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLATNED)  
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG  
37 PULSEOXYMETER   CHARGES 
 
List lll- ltems that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
 
S. 
No. 
Item 
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES(for site preparations) 
3 EYE PAD 
4 EYE SHEILD 
5 CAMERA COVER 
6 DVD ,CD CHARGES 
7 GAUSE SOFT 
8 GAUZE 
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 
10 ARTHROSCOPE AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 
11 MICROSCOPE  COVER 
12 SURGICAL    BLADES,HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER  
13 SURGICAL DRILL 
14 EYE KIT 
15 EYE DRAPE 
16 X-RAY FILM 
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
18 COTTON 
19 COTTON BANDAGE 
20 SURGICAL TAPE 
21 APRON 
22 TORNIQUET 
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 
 
List lV - ltems that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             31  
 
S.
N
o. 
Item 
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION   CHARGES 
2 HOSPITALIZATION FOR EVALUATION/DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
3 URINE CONTAINER 
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES 
5 BIPAP MACHINE 
6 CPAP/CAPD  EQUIPMENTS 
7 INFUSION  PUMP-COST 
8 HYDROGEN  PERPOXIDE\SPIRIT\DISINFECTION  ETC 
9 NUTTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES - DIET CHARGES 
10 HIV KIT 
11 ANTISEPTIC  MOUTHWASH 
12 LOZENGES 
13 MOUTH PAINT 
14 VACCINATION CHARGES 
15 ALCOHOL SWABES 
16 SCRUB SOLUTION / STERILLIUM 
17 GLUCOMETER & STRIPS 
18 URINE BAG 
 
 
 
 
Annexure III: 
Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies 
 
A
. 
Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU 
B
. 
Balloon Sinuplasty 
C
. 
Deep Brain stimulation 
D
. 
Oral chemotherapy 
E
. 
Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection 
F
. 
Intra vitreal injections 
G
. 
Robotic surgeries 
H
. 
Stereotactic radio surgeries 
I
. 
Bronchical  Thermoplasty 
J
. 
Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser treatment) 
K
. 
IONM -(Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring) 
L
. 
Stemcelltherapy: Hematopoietic stemcells for bone marrowtransplant for 
haematological conditions to be covered  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             32  
Annexure IV: 
ICD specific for Mental Illness 
 
ICD 
Cod
es 
ICD Description 
F00 Dementia in Alzheimer disease 
F02 Dementia in other diseases classified elsewhere 
F03 Unspecified dementia 
F05 Delirium, not induced by alcohol and other psychoactive substances 
F07 Personality and behavioural disorders due to brain disease, damage and dysfunction 
F09 Unspecified organic or symptomatic mental disorder 
F20 Schizophrenia 
F21 Schizotypal  disorder 
F22 Persistent delusional disorders  
F23 Acute and transient psychotic disorders  
F24 Induced delusional disorder  
F25 Schizoaffective  disorders  
F31 Bipolar affective disorder  
F32 Depressive  episode 
F33 Recurrent depressive disorder  
F40 Phobic anxiety disorders 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             33  
Annexure V: 
Contact details of the Ombudsman offices 
 
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office 
Union Territory, District) 
AHMEDABAD -  
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, 
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, 
AHMEDABAD – 380 001. 
Tel.: 079 – 25501201 /02 /05/06 
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in   
Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu 
BENGALURU - 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, 
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in  
Karnataka. 
BHOPAL - 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
1st floor, “Jeevan Shikha", 
60-B,Hoshangabad Road, Opp. Gayatri Mandir, 
Bhopal – 462 011. 
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in  
Madhya Pradesh 
Chattisgarh. 
BHUBANESHWAR – 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
62, Forest park, 
Bhubaneswar – 751 009. 
Tel.: 0674 – 2596461 / 2596455 
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in  
Orissa. 
CHANDIGARH -  
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Deep Building SCO 20-27, 
Ground Floor Sector- 17 A, 
Chandigarh – 160 017. 
Tel.: 0172 – 4646394 / 2706468  
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in  
Punjab, Haryana (excluding Gurugram, Faridabad, 
Sonepat and Bahadurgarh), Himachal Pradesh, 
Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir,Ladakh & 
Chandigarh. 
CHENNAI -  
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, 
Anna Salai, Teynampet, 
CHENNAI – 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24333678 
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in  
Tamil Nadu, Puducherry Town and Karaikal (which 
are part of Puducherry) Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             34  
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office 
Union Territory, District) 
DELHI –  
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,  
Asaf Ali Road,  
New Delhi – 110 002. 
Tel.: 011 - 23237539 
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in  
Delhi & following Districts of Haryana - Gurugram, 
Faridabad, Sonepat & Bahadurgarh. 
GUWAHATI -  
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, 
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205 
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in  
Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal 
Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura. 
HYDERABAD -  
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", 
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, 
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 
004. 
Tel.: 040 - 23312122 
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in  
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Yanam and part of 
Union Territory of Puducherry. 
JAIPUR - 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, 
Bhawani Singh Marg, 
Jaipur - 302 005. 
Tel.: 0141 –2740363 / 2740798 
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in  
Rajasthan. 
KOCHI–  
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
10th Floor, Jeevan Prakash,LIC Building, 
Opp to Maharaja's College Ground, M.G.Road, 
Kochi - 682 011. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759  
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in  
Kerala, Lakshadweep, Mahe-a part of Union 
Territory of Puducherry. 
KOLKATA –  
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 7th Floor,  
4, C.R. Avenue,  
KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124341 
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in  
West Bengal, Sikkim, Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113 
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or 
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.) 
Issuing Office: 
    
CIN: U66010PN2000PLC015329 | UIN: BAJHLIP25035V072425                                                                                             35  
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office 
Union Territory, District) 
LUCKNOW – 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 4002082 / 3500613 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in  
Districts of Uttar Pradesh : Lalitpur, Jhansi, 
Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, 
Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, 
Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, 
Barabanki, Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, 
Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang, 
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, 
Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, 
Sidharathnagar.. 
MUMBAI - 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054. 
Tel.: 022 - 69038800/ 27/ 29/ 31/ 32/ 33 
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in  
Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Navi 
Mumbai & Thane). 
NOIDA -  
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Bhagwan Sahai Palace 
4th Floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, 
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301. 
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253 
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in  
State of Uttarakhand and the following Districts of 
Uttar Pradesh: Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, 
Bijnor, Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kannauj, 
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautam Buddh nagar, 
Ghaziabad, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, 
Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur. 
PATNA –  
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
2nd Floor, Lalit Bhawan,  
Bailey Road,  
Patna 800 001. 
Tel.: 0612-2547068 
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in  
Bihar, 
Jharkhand. 
PUNE -  
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,  
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C. Kelkar Road, 
Narayan Peth, Pune – 411 030. 
Tel.: 020- 24471175 
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in  
 Maharashtra, Areas of Navi Mumbai and Thane 
(excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region). 
 
Note: Address and contact number of Governing Body of Insurance Council: 
Council for Insurance Ombudsmen, 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),Mumbai - 
400 054. 
E-mail: inscoun@cioins.co.in, Tel: 022 -69038800/69038812, Website: https://www.cioins.co.in  