===PAGE 0===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
1 
Table of Contents 
Sr. No. Particulars Page No. 
Preamble 2 
Operative Clause 2 
A.1.1 Standard Definitions 2 
A.1.2 Specific Definitions 2 
B.1 Base Coverages 11 
B.2 Optional Coverages 14 
B.3 Renewal Benefit 27 
C.1 Waiting Periods 30 
C.2 Standard Exclusions 31 
C.3 Specific Exclusions 33 
D.1 Standard General Terms & Clauses  34 
E Other Terms & Clauses 48 
Annexure A 52 
Annexure B 56 
Annexure C 60 
 
 
  
===PAGE 1===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
2 
Preamble 
This Policy is a contract of insurance issued by HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited 
(hereinafter called the ‘Company’) to the proposer mentioned in the Policy Schedule (hereinafter called the 
‘Policyholder’) to cover the person(s) named in the Policy Schedule (hereinafter called the ‘Insured 
Person(s)’). The Policy is based on the stateme nts and declaration provided by the Policyholder in the 
Proposal Form as well as in any welcome or other tele-verification calls with the Company’s authorized person 
and is subject to receipt of the requisite premium. 
Operating Clause 
If during the Policy Period the Insured Person is required to be Hospitalized for treatment of an Illness or 
Injury at a Hospital/ Day Care Centre or given treatment at Home, following Medical Advice of a duly qualified 
Medical Practitioner, the Company shall indemnify Medical Expenses necessarily incurred towards the Covers 
in force under the Policy, as specified in the Policy Schedule. 
Provided further that, any amount payable under the Policy shall be subject to the terms of coverage 
(including Aggregate Deductible, Sub -limits), exclusions, conditions and definitions contained herein. The 
maximum, total and cumulative liability of the C ompany under any and all such claims during each Policy 
Year shall be the Sum Insured (Individual or Floater), including optional covers and other add on covers in 
force under the Policy, and Cumulative Bonus (if any) specified in the Policy Schedule. 
SECTION A. DEFINITIONS 
1.1. Standard Definitions 
The terms defined below and at other junctures in the Policy have the meanings ascribed to them 
wherever they appear in this Policy and, where, the context so requires, references to the singular 
include references to the plural; references to the male includes the female and references to any 
statutory enactment includes subsequent changes to the same. 
Def. 1. Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and 
violent means. 
Def. 2. Any one illness means continuous period of illness and includes relapse within 45 days from the 
date of last consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment was taken. 
Def. 3. AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment 
procedures and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any 
of the following: 
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or 
b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government /Central 
Council of Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or 
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located within-patient healthcare facility of any recognized 
system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under 
the supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all 
the following criterion: 
===PAGE 2===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
3 
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds; 
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; 
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation 
theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorized representative. 
Def. 4. AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health 
Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health centre which is registered with the 
local authorities, wherever applicable and having facilities for carrying out treatment procedur es 
and medical or surgical/para -surgical interventions or both under the supervision of registered 
AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) on day care basis without in-patient services and must comply with 
all the following criterion: 
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner (s) in charge; 
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre 
where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorized representative. 
Def. 5. Cashless facility means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments, 
of the costs of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions, are directly made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre-authorization 
is approved. 
Def. 6. Condition Precedent means a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer’s liability under 
the policy is conditional upon. 
Def. 7. Congenital Anomaly means a condition which is present since birth, and which is abnormal 
with reference to form, structure or position. 
a)  Internal Congenital Anomaly : Congenital anomaly  which is not in the visible and 
accessible parts of the body. 
b)  External Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible 
parts of the body. 
Def. 8. Co-Payment means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides 
that the policyholder/insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claims amount. A 
co-payment does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
Def. 9. Cumulative Bonus means any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer 
without an associated increase in premium. 
Def. 10. Day Care Centre means any institution established for day care treatment of illness and / or 
injuries or a medical set -up with a hospital and which has been registered with the local 
authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified medical 
===PAGE 3===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
4 
practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criterion asunder:  
i. has qualified nursing staff under its employment; 
ii. has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge; 
iii. has fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out; 
iv. maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance company’s 
authorized personnel. 
Def. 11. Day Care Treatment means those medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure which is 
i) undertaken under General or Local Anaesthesia in a hospital/day care centre in less than 24 
hours because of technological advancement, and 
ii) which would have otherwise required hospitalization of more than 24 hours, 
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. 
Def. 12. Deductible means a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that 
the insurer will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and for a 
specified number of days/hours in case of hospital cash policies which will apply before any benefits 
are payable by the insurer. A deduc tible does not reduce the Sum Insured. The deductible is 
separate from any Aggregate Deductible that may be in-force and applicable under the Policy, as 
specified in the Policy Schedule. 
Def. 13. Dental Treatment means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including 
examinations, fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery. 
Def. 14. Disclosure of information norm means the policy shall be void and all premium paid hereon 
shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis -description or non -
disclosure of any material fact. 
Def. 15. Domiciliary Hospitalization means medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which in the 
normal course would require care and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined 
at home under any of the following circumstances: 
i. the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a hospital, 
or 
ii. the patient takes treatment at home on account of non-availability of room in a hospital. 
Def. 16. Emergency Care means management for an illness or injury which results in symptoms which 
occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical practitioner to prevent 
death or serious long term impairment of the insured person’s health. 
Def. 17. Grace Period means the specified period of time, immediately following the premium due date 
during which premium payment can be made to renew or continue a policy in force without loss 
of continuity benefits pertaining to waiting periods and coverage of pre-existing diseases. Coverage 
need not be available during the period for which no premium is received. The grace period for 
payment of the premium for all types of insurance policies shall be: fifteen days where premium 
payment mode is monthly and thirty days in all other cases. 
===PAGE 4===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
5 
Provided the insurers shall offer coverage during the grace period, if the premium is paid in 
instalments during the policy period. (Note: In case of non-instalment premium payment, coverage 
shall not be available for the period for which no premium is received). 
Def. 18. Hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment of Illness 
and/or injuries and which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the 
Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act 2010 or under the enactments specified 
under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said act or complies with all minimum criteria as under: 
i) has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock; 
ii) has at least 10 in -patient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at 
least 15 in-patient beds in all other places; 
iii) has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock; 
iv) has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out; 
v) maintains daily records of patients and make these accessible to the insurance company’s 
authorized personnel; 
Def. 19. Hospitalization means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24consecutive ‘In -
patient Care’ hours except for specified procedures/treatments, where such admission could be 
for a period of less than 24 consecutive hours. 
Def. 20. Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of 
normal physiological function and requires medical treatment. 
(a)  Acute condition –Acute condition means is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond 
quickly to treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately 
before suffering the disease/illness/injury which leads to full recovery 
(b)  Chronic condition –A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one 
or more of the following characteristics: 
1. it needs ongoing or long -term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check -
ups, and /or tests 
2. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
3. it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to cope 
with it 
4. it continues indefinitely 
5. it recurs or is likely to recur 
Def. 21. Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly 
caused by external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a 
Medical Practitioner. 
Def. 22. Inpatient Care means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a hospital for more 
than 24 hours for a covered event. 
===PAGE 5===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
6 
Def. 23. Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the 
constant supervision of a dedicated medical practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the 
continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or r equire life 
support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated 
and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards. 
Def. 24. ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU 
expenses which shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided 
to any ICU patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges 
Def. 25. Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the 
issuance of any prescription or follow-up prescription. 
Def. 26. Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually 
incurred for medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical 
Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person 
had not been insured and no more than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have 
charged for the same medical treatment. 
Def. 27. Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council 
of any State or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up 
by the Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine 
within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of license.Medical Practitioner 
who is sharing the same residence as the Insured Person and is a Family Member of the Insured 
Person are not considered as Medical Practitioner under the scope of this Policy. 
Medical Practitioner (Definition applicable for the treatment taken outside India) means a 
licensed medical practitioner acting within the scope of his license and who holds a degree of a 
recognized institution and is registered by the Authorized Medical Council of the respective country. 
Def. 28. Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, test, medication, or stay in hospital or 
part of stay in hospital which: 
i) is required for the medical management of the illness or injury suffered by the insured; 
ii) must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical 
care in scope, duration or intensity; 
iii) must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner; 
iv) must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice 
or by the medical community in India. 
Def. 29. Migration means a facility provided to policyholders (including all members under family cover 
and group policies), to transfer the credits gained for pre -existing diseases and specific waiting 
periods from one health insurance policy to another with the same insurer. 
Def. 30. Network Provider means hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly 
by an Insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a cashless facility. 
===PAGE 6===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
7 
Def. 31. Non-Network Provider means any hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part 
of the network. 
Def. 32. Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through 
any of the recognized modes of communication. 
Def. 33. OPD Treatment means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility 
like a consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. 
The Insured is not admitted as a day care patient or in-patient. 
Def. 34. Portability means a facility provided to the health insurance policyholders (including all members 
under family cover), to transfer the credits gained for, pre -existing diseases and specific waiting 
periods from one insurer to another insurer. 
Def. 35. Pre-Existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease: 
a) that is/are diagnosed by a physician not more than 36 months prior to the date of 
commencement of the policy issued by the insurer; or 
b) for which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician, 
not more than 36 months prior to the date of commencement of the policy. 
Def. 36. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses means Medical Expenses incurred during pre-defined 
number of days preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that: 
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s 
Hospitalization was required, and 
ii. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance 
Company. 
Def. 37. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses means Medical Expenses incurred during pre-defined 
number of days immediately after the insured person is discharged from the hospital provided 
that: 
i. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the insured person’s 
hospitalization was required, and 
ii. The inpatient hospitalization claim for such hospitalization is admissible by the insurance 
company. 
Def. 38. Qualified Nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India 
or the Nursing Council of any state in India. 
Def. 39. Reasonable and Customary Charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are 
the standard charges for a specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the 
geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of illness/ injury 
involved. 
Def. 40. Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent 
with a provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining 
credit for pre-existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods. 
===PAGE 7===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
8 
Def. 41. Room Rent means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and 
shall include the associated medical expenses. 
Def. 42. Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for 
treatment of an illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of 
diseases, relief from suffering and prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day care centre 
by a medical practitioner. 
Def. 43. Unproven/Experimental Treatment means the treatment including drug experimental 
therapy which is based on established medical practice in India, is a treatment experimental or 
unproven. 
 
1.2. Specific Definitions 
The terms defined below and at other junctures in the Policy have the meanings ascribed to them wherever 
they appear in this Policy and, where, the context so requires, references to the singular include references 
to the plural; references to the male includes the female and references to any statutory enactment includes 
subsequent changes to the same. 
Def. 1. Adventurous/Hazardous Sports means any sport or activity involving physical exertion and 
skill in which an Insured Person participates or competes for entertainment or as part of his 
profession whether he / she is trained or not. 
Def. 2. Age means completed years as per last birthday at the inception of the relevant policy year.  
Def. 3. Aggregate Deductible refers to a cost-sharing agreement between the Insurer and the Insured. 
The Insured agrees to bear a self -opted amount known as ‘Aggregate Deductible’ once during 
each Policy Year post which the Insurer’s liability under the Policy shall commence for that Policy 
Year. The Aggregate Deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
Def. 4. Ambulance means a motor vehicle operated by a licenced/authorised service provider and 
equipped for the transport and paramedical treatment of the person requiring medical attention. 
Def. 5. Associated Medical Expenses means Consultation fees, charges on Operation theatre, surgical 
appliances & nursing, and expenses on Anesthesia, blood, oxygen incurred during Hospitalization 
of the Insured Person which vary based on the room category occupied by the insured person 
whilst undergoing treatment in some of the hospitals. If Policy Holder chooses a higher room 
category above the eligibility defined in Policy Schedule, then proportionate deduction will apply 
on the Associated Medical Expenses in addition to the difference in room rent. Such associated 
medical expenses do not include Cost of pharmacy and consumables, Cost of implants and medical 
devices and Cost of diagnostics. Proportionate deduction shall not be applicable to ‘ICU charges’. 
Def. 6. AYUSH Treatment refers to the medical and/or hospitalisation treatments given under Ayurveda, 
Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems. 
Def. 7. Bank Rate means the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the beginning of the 
financial year, which shall be applied depending on the year in which a claim is due. 
Def. 8. Base / Basic Sum Insured  means the limit opted at the time of inception or modified at the 
time of renewal whichever is later. It forms a part of the Sum insured for a given Policy Year. It is 
on per Policy Year basis. In case of Individual Policies Base Sum Insured shall be on per Insu red 
===PAGE 8===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
9 
Person basis. In case of Family Floater policies, a common Base Sum Insured shall be available on 
a floating basis amongst all the Insured Persons. 
Def. 9. Break in policy means the period of gap that occurs at the end of the existing policy 
term/instalment premium due date, when the premium due for renewal on a given policy or 
instalment premium due is not paid on or before the premium renewal date or grace period. 
Def. 10. Biological Attack or Weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of 
any pathogenic (disease producing) micro-organisms and/or biologically produced toxins (including 
genetically modified organisms and chemically synthesized toxins) which are capable of causing 
any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
Def. 11. Chemical attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of 
any solid, liquid or gaseous chemical compound which, when suitably distributed, is capable of 
causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
Def. 12. Commencement Date means the date of commencement of insurance coverage under the 
Policy as specified in the Policy Schedule. 
Def. 13. Family Members means any one or more of the following family members of the Insured 
Person: 
i. Legally wedded spouse. 
ii. Parents and parents-in-law. 
iii. Dependent Children (i.e. natural or legally adopted) between the Age 90 days to Age 25 years. 
If the child above 18 years of Age is financially independent, he or she shall be ineligible for 
coverage under this Policy in the subsequent renewals. 
Def. 14. Home means the Insured Person’s place of permanent residence as specified in the Policy 
Schedule. 
Def. 15. Insured Person means persons named in the Policy Schedule who are insured under the Policy 
and in respect of whom the applicable premium has been received in full. 
Def. 16. Life threatening situation shall mean a serious medical condition or symptom resulting from 
Injury or Illness which is not Pre -Existing Disease, which arises suddenly and unexpectedly, and 
requires immediate care and treatment by a Medical Practitioner, generally received within 24 
hours of onset to avoid jeopardy to life or serious long term impairment of the Insured Person’s 
health, until stabilisation at which time this medical condition or symptom is not considered an 
Emergency anymore. 
Def. 17. Material Facts means all relevant information sought by the Company in the Proposal Form and 
other connected documents to enable it to take informed decision in the context of underwriting 
the risk. 
Def. 18. Non-instalment Premium Payment refers to payment of premium for the entire policy period 
made in advance as a single premium. 
Def. 19. Policy means these Policy wordings, the Policy Schedule and any applicable endorsements or 
===PAGE 9===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
10 
extensions attaching to or forming part thereof, as amended from time to time, and shall be read 
together. The Policy contains details of the extent of cover available to the Insured Person, 
applicable exclusions and the terms & conditions applicable under the Policy. 
Def. 20. Policy Period means the period between the Commencement Date and either the Expiry Date 
specified in the Policy Schedule or the date of cancellation of this Policy, whichever is earlier. 
Def. 21. Policyholder means person who has proposed the Policy and in whose name the Policy is issued. 
Def. 22. Policy Schedule means the Policy Schedule attached to and forming part of this Policy specifying 
the details of the Insured Persons, the Sum Insured, the Policy Period and the Sub-limits to which 
benefits under the Policy are subject to, including any annexures and/or endorsements, made to 
or on it from time to time, and if more than one, then the latest in time. 
Def. 23. Policy Year means a period of twelve months beginning from the Commencement Date and 
ending on the last day of such twelve-month period. For the purpose of subsequent years, Policy 
Year shall mean a period of twelve months commencing from the end of the previous Policy Year 
and lapsing on the last day of such twelve -month period, till the Expiry Date, as specified in the 
Policy Schedule. 
Def. 24. Preventive Health Check -up means a package of medical test(s) undertaken for general 
assessment of health status, excluding any diagnostic or investigative medical tests for evaluation 
of Illness or a disease. 
Def. 25. E-Opinion for Critical Illness means a procedure where by upon request of the Insured Person, 
an independent Medical Practitioner reviews and opines on the treating Medical Practitioner’s 
recommendation as to care and treatment of the Insured Person by reviewing Insured Person’s 
medical status and history. Such an opinion shall not be deemed to substitute the Insured Person’s 
physical visit or consultation to an independent Medical Practitioner. 
Def. 26. Shared Accommodation OR Shared Room category means a room in a Hospital with double 
occupancy having shared washroom. This room does not include kitchen / dining area. 
Def. 27. Single Private Room means an air-conditioned room in a Hospital where a single patient is 
accommodated and which has an attached toilet (lavatory and bath). Such room type shall be the 
most economical of all accommodations available as a single AC room in that Hospital 
Def. 28. Sub-limit means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy in which an insurer 
would not be liable to pay any amount in excess of the pre-defined limit. The Sub-limit as applicable 
under the Policy is specified in the Policy Schedule against the relevant Cover in force under the 
Policy. 
Def. 29. Sum Insured means the aggregate limit of indemnity consisting of the Base Sum Insured, 
Cumulative Bonus, Plus Benefit , Infinite Benefit , Secure Benefit and Automatic Restore Benefit 
(provided that these covers are in force for the Insured Person). Sum Insured represents the 
maximum, total and cumulative liability of the Company for any and all claims made under the 
Policy, in respect of t hat Insured Person (on Individual basis) or all Insured Persons (on Floater 
basis) during the Policy Year. 
===PAGE 10===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
11 
Def. 30. Waiting Period  means a period from the inception of this Policy during which specified 
diseases/treatments are not covered. On completion of the Waiting Period, diseases/treatments 
shall be covered provided the Policy has been continuously renewed without any break. 
SECTION B. BENEFITS 
1. Base Coverage 
The Covers listed below are in-built Policy benefits and shall be available to all Insured Persons in 
accordance with the procedures set out in this Policy and up to the Sub -limits mentioned in the 
Policy Schedule. Cumulative Bonus shall be available only if the Cover is specified to be applicable 
in the Policy Schedule. 
Claims made in respect of any of these Covers will affect the eligibility for the additional Covers 
set out in Section B-2 and Section B-3 below. 
1.1. Hospitalization Expenses 
The Company shall indemnify Medical Expenses necessarily incurred by the Insured Person for 
Hospitalization of the Insured Person during the Policy Year due to Illness or Injury, up to the Sum 
Insured specified in the Policy Schedule for: 
a. Room Rent, boarding, nursing expenses as provided by the Hospital / Nursing Home. Room 
rent limit shall be ‘At Actuals’ unless otherwise specified in the Policy Schedule. 
b. Intensive Care Unit (ICU) / Intensive Cardiac Care Unit (ICCU) expenses. ICU limit (including 
ICCU) for bed charges shall be ‘At Actuals’ unless otherwise specified in the Policy Schedule. 
c. Surgeon, anaesthetist, Medical Practitioner, consultants, specialist Fees during Hospitalization 
forming part of Hospital bill. 
d. Investigative treatments and diagnostic procedures directly related to Hospitalization. 
e. Medicines and drugs prescribed in writing by Medical Practitioner. 
f. Intravenous fluids, blood transfusion, surgical appliances, allowable consumables and/or 
enteral feedings. Operation theatre charges. 
g. The cost of prosthetics and other devices or equipment, if implanted internally during Surgery. 
1.1.1. Other Expenses 
i. Expenses incurred on road Ambulance if the Insured Person is required to be transferred to 
the nearest Hospital for Emergency Care or from one Hospital to another Hospital or from 
Hospital to Home (within same city) following Hospitalization. 
ii. In patient Care Dental Treatment, necessitated due to disease or Injury 
iii. Plastic Surgery, necessitated due to Injury 
iv. All Day Care Treatments. 
Note 
i. Expenses of Hospitalization for a minimum period of 24 consecutive hours only shall be 
===PAGE 11===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
12 
admissible. However, the time limit shall not apply in respect of Day Care Treatment. 
ii. The Hospitalization must be for Medically Necessary Treatment, and prescribed in writing by 
Medical Practitioner. 
iii. Proportionate deduction on Room Rent: In case the Insured Person is admitted in a room that 
exceeds the category/limit stipulated in the Policy Schedule, the reimbursement/payment of 
Room Rent charges including all Associated Medical Expenses incurred at H ospital shall be 
effected in the same proportion as the admissible rate per day bears to the actual rate per 
day of Room Rent charges. This condition is not applicable in respect of Hospitals where 
differential billing for Associated Medical Expenses is no t followed based on Room Rent. In 
case the Insured Person is admitted in an ICU / ICCU room that exceeds the category/limit 
stipulated in the Policy Schedule then Proportionate deduction as stated above shall only apply 
on ICU / ICCU room charges for the d ays Insured Person was admitted in ICU / ICCU. 
Proportionate deduction will not apply for Associated Medical expenses incurred during the 
days Insured Person was admitted in ICU / ICCU. 
1.2. Home Health Care 
The Company shall indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred by the Insured Person on availing 
treatment at Home during the Policy Year, if prescribed in writing by the treating Medical 
Practitioner, provided that: 
a. The treatment in normal course would require In-patient Care at a Hospital, and be admissible 
under Section B-1.1 (Hospitalization Expenses). 
b. The treatment is pre -authorized by the Company as per procedure given under Claims 
Procedure - Section E-1. 
c. Records of the treatment administered, duly signed by the treating Medical Practitioner, are 
maintained for each day of the Home treatment. 
This Cover is not available on reimbursement basis. 
1.3. Domiciliary Hospitalization 
The Company shall indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred during the Policy Year on Domiciliary 
Hospitalization of the Insured Person prescribed in writing by treating Medical Practitioner, 
provided that: 
a. the condition of the Insured Person is such that he/she could not be removed/admitted to a 
Hospital. 
 or, 
b. the Medically Necessary Treatment is taken at Home on account of non-availability of room in 
a Hospital. 
1.4. AYUSH Treatment 
The Company shall indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred by the Insured Person only for 
Inpatient Care under Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems 
===PAGE 12===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
13 
of medicines during each Policy Year up to the Sub-limit specified against this Cover in the Policy 
Schedule, in any AYUSH Hospital. 
1.5. Pre-Hospitalization Expenses 
The Company shall indemnify the Pre -Hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred by the Insured 
Person only if the same is related to an admissible Hospitalization under Section B -1.1 
(Hospitalization Expenses). 
Such expenses shall be indemnified if the same were incurred upto 60 days unless otherwise  
specified in the Policy Schedule, immediately prior to the date of admission. 
1.6. Post-Hospitalization Expenses 
The Company shall indemnify the Post -Hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred by the Insured 
Person only if the same is related to an admissible Hospitalization under Section B -1.1 
(Hospitalization Expenses). Such expenses shall be indemnified if the same  were incurred upto 
180 days unless otherwise specified in the Policy Schedule, immediately post the date of discharge 
from the Hospital. 
1.7. Organ Donor Expenses 
The Company shall indemnify the Medical Expenses covered under Section B -1.1(Hospitalization 
Expenses) which are incurred by the Insured Person during the Policy Year towards the organ 
donor’s Hospitalization for harvesting of the donated organ where an In sured Person is the 
recipient, subject to the following conditions: 
a. The organ donor is any person whose organ has been made available in accordance and in 
compliance with The Transplantation of Human Organ (amendment) Act, 2011, 
Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Rules, 2014 and other applicable laws and/or 
regulations. 
b. Recipient Insured Person’s claim under Section B-1.1 (Hospitalization Expenses) is admissible 
under the Policy. 
c. Expenses listed below are excluded from this Cover: 
i. The organ donor’s Pre-Hospitalization Expenses and Post-Hospitalization Expenses. 
ii. Expenses related to organ transportation or preservation. 
iii. Any other Medical Expenses or Hospitalization consequent to the organ harvesting. 
1.8. Cumulative Bonus (CB) [Applicable to ‘Optima Suraksha’, ‘Optima Lite’ and ‘Optima 
Select’ plans] 
On Renewal of this Policy with the Company without a break, a sum equal to 10%  (unless 
otherwise specified in the policy schedule) of the Base Sum Insured of the expiring Policy shall be 
provided as CB irrespective of any claims and shall be available under the Renewed Policy subject 
to the following conditions: 
Notes: 
===PAGE 13===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
14 
a. In case where the Policy is on individual basis as specified in the Policy Schedule, the CB shall 
be added and available individually to the Insured Person. 
b. In case where the Policy is on floater basis, the CB shall be added and available to the family 
on floater basis. 
c. CB shall be available only if the Policy is renewed/ premium paid within the Grace Period. 
d. If the Insured Persons in the expiring policy are covered on an individual basis as specified in 
the Policy Schedule and there is an accumulated CB for such Insured Persons under the 
expiring policy, and such expiring policy has been Renewed on a floater p olicy basis as 
specified in the Policy Schedule then the CB to be carried forward for credit in such Renewed 
Policy shall be the lowest one that is applicable among all the Insured Persons. 
e. In case of floater policies where the Insured Persons Renew their expiring policy by splitting 
the Sum Insured in to two or more floater policies/individual policies or in cases where the 
Policy is split due to the child attaining the Age of 25 years, the CB of the expiring policy shall 
be apportioned to such Renewed Policies in the proportion of the Sum Insured of each 
Renewed Policy 
f. If the Sum Insured has been reduced at the time of Renewal, the applicable CB shall be 
reduced in the same proportion to the Sum Insured in current Policy. 
g. If the Sum Insured under the Policy has been increased at the time of Renewal, the CB shall 
be calculated on the Sum Insured of the last completed Policy Year. 
h. If the Policy Period is of two/three years, any CB that has accrued for the first/second Policy 
Year shall be credited post completion of each Policy Year. 
i. New Insured Person added to the Policy during subsequent Renewals will be eligible for CB 
as per their Renewal terms. 
j. CB shall be available only if the Cover is specified to be applicable in the Policy Schedule. 
k. CB percentage and maximum accrual limit applicable shall be as specified in the Policy 
Schedule. 
 
2. Optional Covers 
The Covers listed below are optional covers. An optional cover is applicable to an Insured Person 
only if it is specified in the Policy Schedule to be in force for that Insured Person, and such optional 
cover will be available in accordance with the procedures set out in this Policy and up to the Sub-
limits mentioned in the Policy Schedule.  
Note: Please refer to ‘Annexure C’ for details pertaining to optional covers available with your plan 
opted 
 Key to read ‘Annexure C’ 
a. ‘Covered’ means that particular benefit is an inbuilt feature in that particular plan and the 
premium of such benefits are included in the premium of the respective Plan. 
===PAGE 14===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
15 
b. ‘Not Covered’ means that particular benefit is NOT available either as an inbuilt feature or 
as an optional feature in that particular plan 
c. ‘Optional’ means that particular benefit is NOT an inbuilt feature BUT can be opted by the 
Proposer/Policyholder either at inception or at renewal  subject to company’s discretion.‘PED 
wait period modification’ is allowed to be opted at channel level only. Individual customers 
will not be able to opt for the same.  
===PAGE 15===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
16 
2.1. Emergency Air Ambulance 
The Company shall indemnify expenses incurred by the Insured Person during the Policy Year 
towards Ambulance transportation in an airplane or helicopter for Emergency Care which requires 
immediate and rapid Ambulance transportation that ground transportation cannot provide from 
the site of first occurrence of the Illness or Accident  to the nearest Hospital. The claim is subject 
to a maximum of Sum Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule against this Cover, and subject 
to the following conditions: 
a. The air Ambulance transportation is advised in writing by a Medical Practitioner. 
b. Medically Necessary Treatment is not available at the location where the Insured Person is 
situated at the time of emergency. 
c. The air Ambulance provider is a registered entity in India (except Section B-2.9 (Global Health 
Cover (Emergency Treatments Only)) and Section B -2.10 (Global Health Cover (Emergency 
and Planned Treatments Only)). 
d. The Insured Person is in India and the treatment is taken in India only (except Section B-2.9 
(Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only)) and Section B-2.10 (Global Health Cover 
(Emergency and Planned Treatments Only)). 
e. No return transportation to the Insured Person’s Home or elsewhere by the air Ambulance will 
be covered under this Cover. 
f. A claim for the same Hospitalization is admissible under Section B -1.1 (Hospitalization 
Expenses) OR Section B-2.9 (Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only)) OR Section 
B-2.10 (Global Health Cover (Emergency and Planned Treatments Only)). 
g. The amount specified in the Policy schedule against this benefit denotes the Company's 
maximum liability in respect to the benefit and shall not reduce the Sum Insured of the policy. 
2.2. Daily Cash for Shared Room 
The Company shall pay a daily cash amount as specified in Policy Schedule for each continuous 
and completed 24 hours of Hospitalization during the Policy Year if the Insured Person is 
Hospitalised in shared accommodation in a Network Provider Hospital and such Hospitalization 
exceeds 48 consecutive hours. 
 Specific Conditions: 
a. The Cover is not available for the time spent by the Insured Person in an Intensive Care Unit 
(ICU). 
b. We shall NOT pay any claim under this benefit until the hospitalization claim is admissible 
under section B-1.1 (Hospitalization Expenses). 
c. The amount specified in the Policy schedule against this benefit denotes the Company's 
maximum liability in respect to the benefit and shall not reduce the Sum Insured of the policy. 
2.3. Protect Benefit 
The Company shall indemnify the Insured Person for the Non -Medical Expenses listed under 
Annexure B to this Policy incurred in relation to a claim admissible as per Section B -1 (Base 
===PAGE 16===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
17 
Coverage) during the Policy Year. 
Exclusion (k) of Section C.2 – Specific Exclusions shall not apply to this Cover. 
In plans where in Protect Benefit is available as an optional cover, this benefit can be opted only 
at inception or at renewals and once opted the same can be opted out at renewals only. 
Claims under Protect Benefit shall be payable only if the same is stated to be inforce in the Policy 
Schedule. 
2.4. Plus Benefit 
On Renewal of this Policy with the Company without a break, a sum equal to 50% of the Base 
Sum Insured under the expiring Policy will be added to the Sum Insured available under the 
Renewed Policy subject to the following conditions: 
a. The applicable Plus Benefit under this Cover can only be accumulated up to 100% of Base 
Sum Insured, and will be applicable only to the Insured Person covered under the expiring 
Policy and who continues to remain insured on Renewal. 
b. The applicable Plus Benefit shall be applied annually only on completion of each Policy Year, 
and once added, the accumulated amount will be carried forward to the subsequent Policy 
Year, subject to there being no Break in Policy. 
c. This Cover will be applied irrespective of number of claims made under the expiring Policy. 
d. The applicable Plus Benefit under this Cover can be utilized only for claims admissible under 
Section B-1 (Base Coverage) and Section B-2.3 (Protect Benefit) of the Policy. 
Notes: 
i. In case where the Policy is issued on an individual basis, the Plus Benefit shall be added and 
available individually to the Insured Person. In case where the Policy is on floater basis, the 
Plus Benefit shall be added and available to all Family Members on a floater basis. 
ii. Plus Benefit shall be available only if the Policy is renewed and due premium is received within 
the Grace Period. 
iii. If the Insured Persons in the expiring policy are covered on an individual basis as specified in 
the Policy Schedule and there is an accumulated Plus Benefit for such Insured Persons under 
the expiring policy, and such expiring policy has been Renewed on a  floater policy basis as 
specified in the Policy Schedule then the Plus Benefit to be carried forward for credit in such 
Renewed Policy shall be the lowest one that is applicable among all the Insured Persons. 
iv. In case of floater policies where Insured Persons Renew their expiring policy by splitting the 
Sum Insured in to two or more floater policies/individual policies or in cases where the Policy 
is split due to the child attaining the Age of 25 years, the Plus  Benefit of the expiring policy 
shall be apportioned to such Renewed Policies in the proportion of the Sum Insured of each 
Renewed Policy 
v. If the Sum Insured has been reduced at the time of Renewal, the applicable Plus Benefit shall 
be reduced in the same proportion to the Sum Insured in current Policy. 
vi. If the Sum Insured under the Policy has been increased at the time of Renewal, the Plus 
===PAGE 17===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
18 
Benefit shall be calculated on the Sum Insured of the last completed Policy Year. 
vii. If the Policy Period is of two or three years, the Plus Benefit shall be credited post completion 
of each Policy Year, and will be available for any claims made in the subsequent Policy Year. 
viii. New Insured Person added to the Policy during subsequent Renewals will be eligible for the 
Plus Benefit as per their Renewal terms. 
ix. In plans where in Plus Benefit is available as an optional cover, this benefit can be opted only 
at inception or at renewals and once opted the same can be opted out only at renewals. Upon 
opting for this benefit, any accrued CB amount shall be carried forward to the renewed Policy 
and thereafter CB benefit shall cease to exist. 
2.5. Secure Benefit 
An additional amount as specified in the Policy Schedule will be available to the Insured Person as 
Sum Insured for all claims admissible under Section B (Base Coverage) and Section B-2.3 (Protect 
Benefit) during the Policy Year, subject to the following conditions: 
a. This Secure Benefit shall be applied only once during each Policy Year and any unutilized 
amount, in whole or in part, will not be carried forward to the subsequent Policy Year. 
b. The Secure Benefit can be utilized for any number of claims admissible under the Policy during 
the Policy Year. 
c. The Secure Benefit will be applicable only after exhaustion of Base Sum Insured. 
d. In case of family floater policy, the Secure Benefit will be available on floater basis for all 
Insured Persons covered under the Policy and will operate in accordance with the above 
conditions. 
2.6. Automatic Restore Benefit 
The company shall instantly add 100% of the Base Sum Insured under this benefit in the event of 
an admissible claim during the Policy Year due to which Sum Insured was partially or completely 
exhausted. 
 Specific Conditions applicable to Automatic Restore Benefit 
i. Automatic Restore Benefit shall be applied only once during the Policy Year unless specified 
otherwise in the Policy Schedule. In case ‘Unlimited Times’ is specified against this benefit in 
the Policy Schedule it shall mean that this benefit shall trigger every time an admissible claim 
is paid during the Policy Year. 
ii. The amount restored under this benefit can only be used to pay subsequent claims that arise 
during the remainder of the Policy Year. 
iii. The amount restored under this benefit can only be used to pay claims that are admissible 
under Base Coverage (Section B.1.) and Protect Benefit (Section B.2.3). 
iv. A single claim in the Policy Year shall never exceed the cumulative addition of 
a. Base Sum Insured, 
b. Secure Benefit (if applicable and remaining during the Policy Year), 
===PAGE 18===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
19 
c. Cumulative Bonus (if applicable and remaining during the Policy Year), 
d. Plus Benefit (if applicable and remaining during the Policy Year) AND 
e. Infinite Benefit (if applicable and remaining during the Policy Year).  
v. The restored Sum Insured can be used by the Insured Person who has already claimed during 
the Policy Year and also by any other Insured person under the Policy. 
vi. The restored Sum Insured can be used even for the same illness for which an admissible claim 
has been paid during the Policy Year and also for any other Illness covered under the Policy. 
vii. The restored Sum Insured if not utilized shall not be carried forward to subsequent Policy 
Years. 
viii. In case of a family floater policy, the Automatic Restore Benefit will be available on floater 
basis for all Insured Persons covered under the Policy and will operate in accordance with the 
above conditions. 
2.7. Aggregate Deductible 
The Insured Person shall bear an amount equal to the Aggregate Deductible specified on Policy 
Schedule once in a Policy Year post which coverage shall commence under this policy for that 
Policy Year. 
The Aggregate deductible limit can be exhausted by providing any invoices and relevant proof of 
one or more hospitalizations of the Insured person undertaken during the Policy Year. However, 
such treatments must be admissible as per terms and conditions of  this policy. Coverage under 
the policy shall be provided post assessment of the above. 
This Cover shall be subject to the following conditions: 
a. This Cover is applicable on annual aggregate basis and can be opted only at inception of the 
Policy or at subsequent Renewals. Aggregate Deductible can be increased at the time of 
Renewal. 
b. In case of Individual Policy, the entire amount of Aggregate Deductible must first be exhausted 
on per Insured Person basis, once in a Policy Year, before the Company pays for claims of 
that Insured Person in that Policy Year. 
c. In case of family floater Policy, the entire amount of Aggregate Deductible must first be 
exhausted by any one or more of the Insured Persons once in a Policy Year before the 
Company pays for claims of any Family Member covered under the Policy in that Policy Year. 
d. The Aggregate Deductible is not applicable to Sections B -2.8 (E-Opinion for Critical Illness), 
Section B-3 (Preventive Health Check Up), Sections B -2.9 (Global Health Cover (Emergency 
Treatments Only)), Section B-2.10 (Global Health Cover (Emergency and Planned Treatments 
Only)) and Section B-2.11 (Overseas Travel Secure). Hence, coverage under Section B-2.8 (E-
opinion for Critical Illness), Section B -3 (Preventive Health Check Up), Section B -2.9 (Global 
Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only)), Section B-2.10 (Global Health Cover (Emergency 
and Planned Treatments Only)) and Section B-2.11 (Overseas Travel Secure) can be availed 
irrespective of whether the chosen Aggregate Deductible limit is breached or not, during the 
Policy Year. 
===PAGE 19===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
20 
e. Preventive Health Check -up benefit will not be available under the policy if Aggregate 
Deductible of INR 5 Lakhs is in force. 
f. Preventive Health Check-up benefit, Secure Benefit, Cumulative Bonus / Plus Benefit / Infinite 
Benefit, Automatic Restore Benefit, Daily Cash for Shared Room and Unlimited Restore (Add-
on) benefits will not be available under the policy if Aggregate Deductible of INR 10 Lakhs or 
more is in force. 
2.7.1  Waiver of Aggregate Deductible 
The Insured Person will have the option to either reduce or waive the applicable aggregate 
deductible only once in the lifetime of the Policy and at Renewal, subject to underwriting and only 
if all the below mentioned conditions are fulfilled: 
a. Age of eldest Insured Person should be less than 50 years at the time of purchasing this Policy 
(with aggregate deductible) 
b. Only after completion of 5 continuous Policy Years with Us in this Policy (with aggregate 
deductible) and the age of eldest Insured Person covered in the Policy should be less than 61 
years at the time of availing this option. 
c. Continuity benefits of waiting period accrued as per expiring Policy Year (with aggregate 
deductible) shall be offered even after availing this option. 
d. This option shall apply to all Insured Person(s) once selected, without any individual selection. 
e. Post availing ‘Waiver of Aggregate Deductible’ option, premium will be charged as per the 
modification made. 
f. In the event that an Aggregate Deductible is reduced OR is completely waived, at renewal, 
the Insured Persons shall be eligible for the benefits applicable as per the plan / Aggregate 
Deductible / Sum Insured applicable in the forthcoming Policy Years post renewal. 
2.8. E-Opinion for Critical Illness 
The company shall provide E-opinion facility to the Insured Person for a Critical Illness listed below. 
The E-opinion shall be from a Medical Practitioner within our network 
Specific Conditions applicable to E-Opinion for Critical Illness: 
a. Benefit under this cover shall be subject to the eligible geography of the Network Provider. 
The Insured Person may contact the Company or refer to its website for details on eligible 
Network Provider(s). 
b. In case of Individual policies, this benefit can be availed by the Insured Person only once in a 
Policy Year 
c. In case of Family Floater and Multi-individual policies, This benefit shall be available for once 
in the Policy year for each Insured Person under the policy. 
d. The Insured Person is free to choose whether or not to obtain the E-Opinion for Critical Illness, 
and if obtained, it is the Insured Person’s sole and absolute discretion to follow the suggestion 
for any advice related to his/her health. It is understood and agreed that any information and 
documentation provided to the Company for the purpose of seeking the E-Opinion for Critical 
===PAGE 20===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
21 
Illness shall be shared with the Network Providers. 
e. Availing this benefit shall not have any impact on the Sum Insured. 
Disclaimer –E-Opinion for listed Critical Illness Services are being offered by Network Providers through its 
portal/mail/App or any other electronic form to the Policyholders/Insured Person. In no event shall the 
Company be liable for any direct, indirect, punitive, incidental, special, or consequential damages or any 
other damages whatsoever caused to the Policyholders/Insured Person while receiving the services from 
Network Providers or arising out of or in relation to any opinion, advice, prescription, actual or alleged errors, 
omissions and representations made by the Network Provider or treating Medical Practitioner. 
Major Medical Illness 
1 Cancer of specified severity 27 Aplastic Anaemia 
2 Open Chest CABG 28 Bacterial Meningitis 
3 Kidney failure requiring regular dialysis 29 Cardiomyopathy 
4 Myocardial Infarction (First Heart Attack of 
specified severity) 
30 Other serious coronary artery disease 
5 Open Heart Replacement or Repair of Heart 
Valves 
31 Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD) 
6 Major Organ/Bone Marrow Transplantation 32 Encephalitis 
7 Multiple Sclerosis with persisting symptoms 33 End Stage Lung Failure 
8 Permanent Paralysis of Limbs 34 Fulminant Hepatitis 
9 Stroke resulting in permanent symptoms 35 Eisenmenger's Syndrome 
10 Benign Brain Tumour 36 Major Head Trauma 
11 Coma of specified severity 37 Chronic Adrenal Insufficiency (Addison's 
Disease) 
12 Parkinson’s Disease 38 Progressive Scleroderma 
13 Alzheimer's Disease 39 Progressive Supranuclear Palsy 
14 Surgery of Aorta 40 Blindness 
15 End Stage Liver Failure 41 Chronic Relapsing Pancreatitis 
16 Deafness 42 Elephantiasis 
17 Loss of Speech 43 Brain Surgery 
18 Third Degree Burns 44 HIV due to blood transfusion and 
occupationally acquired HIV 
19 Medullary Cystic Disease 45 Terminal Illness 
20 Motor Neurone Disease with permanent 
symptoms 
46 Myelofibrosis 
21 Muscular Dystrophy 47 Pheochromocytoma 
22 Infective Endocarditis 48 Crohn's Disease 
23 Primary (Idiopathic) Pulmonary Hypertension 49 Severe Rheumatoid Arthritis 
24 Dissecting Aortic Aneurysm 50 Severe Ulcerative Colitis 
25 Systemic Lupus Erythematous with Lupus 
Nephritis 
51 Angioplasty 
===PAGE 21===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
22 
26 Apallic Syndrome   
 
 
2.9. Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only) 
On availing this cover, the below mentioned benefits shall be extended for Emergency Medical 
Expenses which are diagnosed and incurred outside India : 
B-1.1 Hospitalization Expenses 
B-1.4 AYUSH Treatment 
B-1.7 Organ Donor Expenses 
B-2.1 Emergency Air Ambulance 
B-2.3 Protect Benefit 
B-2.4 Plus Benefit 
B-2.8 E Opinion for Critical Illness 
 
A. Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only) is applicable subject to following 
terms and conditions 
i. Our maximum liability in a Policy Year for claims under this cover shall not exceed the Base 
Sum Insured and Plus Benefit (if available). 
ii. Section B-2.7 (Aggregate Deductible) will not be applicable for any claim under this cover. 
However, a Per Claim Deductible of Rs. 10,000 will apply separately for each and every claim 
(except Section B-2.8 ‘E Opinion for Critical Illness’) under this cover. 
iii. Claims shall normally be payable on Reimbursement basis only. Cashless facility may be 
arranged on case to case basis. 
iv. The treatment should be taken in a registered Hospital, as per law, rules and/ or regulations 
applicable to the country, where the treatment is taken. 
v. The payment of any Claim under this Benefit will be based on the rate of exchange as on the 
date of payment to the Hospital published by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and shall be used 
for conversion of Foreign Currency into Indian Rupees for payment of Claims. If on the Insured 
Person’s Date of Discharge, if RBI rates are not published, the exchange rate next published 
by RBI shall be considered for conversion. 
vi. We would not be liable to pay any claim wherein the medical treatment taken outside India 
has not commenced within the first 45 days of a trip. 
 Note: Each trip shall be deemed to start within the Policy Period and from the date Insured 
Person finally boards the flight (scheduled aircraft operated under a valid license for the 
transportation of fare paying passengers under a valid ticket) to leave from India. 
vii. There is no separate Sum Insured for this optional cover and any claim triggered under this 
benefit shall reduce the Sum Insured of the opted plan. 
===PAGE 22===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
23 
B. Specific Exclusions applicable to Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only) 
i. Any Planned treatments 
ii. In case we have paid a Hospitalization claim under this benefit, Pre -hospitalization Medical 
Expenses and/or Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses related to the claim whether incurred 
overseas or within India are not payable under this Policy. 
iii. Treatment or part of treatment for any condition which is not Life threatening in nature and 
can be safely postponed till the Insured Person returns to India. 
iv. Medical treatment taken outside India if that is the sole reason or one of the reasons for the 
journey. 
v. Any treatment of orthopedic diseases or conditions except for fractures, dislocations and / or 
Injuries suffered during the Policy Period. 
vi. Oncological (Cancer) diseases 
vii. The Company may not be liable to make any payment under this Policy, wherein the 
Government of India has laid down territorial restriction. 
2.10. Global Health Cover (Emergency & Planned Treatments) 
On availing this cover, the below mentioned benefits shall be extended for both planned and 
Emergency Medical Expenses outside India: 
B-1.1 Hospitalization Expenses 
B-1.4 AYUSH Treatment 
B-1.5 Pre-Hospitalization cover 
B-1.6 Post-Hospitalization cover 
B-1.7 Organ Donor Expenses 
B-2.1 Emergency Air Ambulance 
B-2.3 Protect Benefit 
B-2.4 Plus Benefit 
B-2.8 E Opinion for Critical Illness 
 
Global Health Cover (Emergency & Planned Treatments) is applicable subject to following terms 
and conditions 
i. Our maximum liability in a Policy Year for claims under this cover shall not exceed the Base 
Sum Insured and Plus Benefit (if available). 
ii. Section B-2.7 (Aggregate Deductible) will not be applicable for any claim under this cover. 
However, a Per Claim Deductible of Rs. 10,000 will apply separately for each and every claim 
(except Section B-2.8 ‘E Opinion for Critical Illness’) under this cover. 
iii. Claims shall normally be payable on Reimbursement basis only. Cashless facility may be 
arranged on case to case basis. 
iv. The treatment should be taken in a registered Hospital, as per law, rules and/ or regulations 
===PAGE 23===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
24 
applicable to the country, where the treatment is taken. 
v. The payment of any Claim under this Benefit will be based on the rate of exchange as on the 
date of payment to the Hospital published by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and shall be used 
for conversion of Foreign Currency into Indian Rupees for payment of Claims. If on the Insured 
Person’s Date of Discharge, if RBI rates are not published, the exchange rate next published 
by RBI shall be considered for conversion. 
vi. The Company may not be liable to make any payment under this Policy, wherein the 
Government of India has laid down territorial restriction. 
vii. There is no separate Sum Insured for this optional cover and any claim triggered under this 
benefit shall reduce the Sum Insured of the opted plan. 
viii. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses and/or Post -hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred 
and paid overseas shall be indemnified only if the concerned hospitalization was undertaken 
overseas and claim for such hospitalization was admissible under ‘Global Health Cover 
(Emergency & Planned Treatments)’. 
ix. In case we have accepted an overseas hospitalization claim under ‘Global Health Cover 
(Emergency & Planned Treatments)’ then 
i) Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses and/or Post -hospitalization Medical Expenses 
concerning such hospitalization shall be paid only if the same have been incurred and 
paid overseas (as per details in invoice/supporting documents). 
ii) Any Pre -hospitalization Medical Expenses and/or Post -hospitalization Medical Expense 
emanating from an overseas hospitalization claim but incurred in India shall not be 
payable under the policy. 
x. In case customer has initiated Migration or Portability, all waiting periods shall apply afresh 
only for planned hospitalization claims admissible under ‘Global Health Cover (Emergency & 
Planned Treatments)’. Such waiting periods shall commence from the date ‘Global Health 
Cover (Emergency & Planned Treatments) has come into force.  In case of forced migration 
initiated by the company, this clause shall not apply. 
2.11. Overseas Travel Secure 
i) This optional cover can only be opted along with Optima Secure Global Plan or Optima Secure 
Global Plus Plan on payment of additional premium. 
ii) Claim under this benefit shall be payable upto Sum Insured and is admissible only if both the 
below conditions are fulfilled: 
a. The overseas treating Medical Practitioner has advised a minimum hospitalization of 5 
consecutive days and has also advised the requirement of an accompanying person during 
treatment. 
b. We have accepted a claim under 
• Section 2.9 Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only) OR 
===PAGE 24===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
25 
• Section 2.10 Global Health Cover (Emergency & Planned Treatments) 
iii) There is no separate Sum Insured for this optional cover and any claim triggered under this 
benefit shall reduce the Sum Insured of the opted plan. 
iv) We will indemnify the following expenses incurred overseas: 
1. Travel Expenses 
a. We will indemnify actual expenses incurred on air tickets (most basic economy class 
airfare in a common carrier) for the Hospitalized Insured Person and any one 
accompanying person to attend to the Insured Person‘s medical treatment overseas. 
i. For Emergency hospitalization cases, we shall indemnify for the following travel 
expenses 
• For the accompanying person, two way expense incurred on air tickets from 
his City of Residence OR India to the airport nearest to the site of 
hospitalization shall be provided. 
• For the Hospitalized Insured Person, we shall only indemnify air expenses 
incurred to transport him from the airport nearest to the site of 
Hospitalization to India. 
ii. For planned hospitalization cases, we shall indemnify for the following travel 
expenses 
• For the accompanying person, two way expense incurred on air tickets from 
his City of Residence OR India to the airport nearest to the site of 
hospitalization shall be provided. 
• For the Hospitalized Insured Person, we shall indemnify two way expense 
incurred on air tickets from India to the airport nearest to the site of 
hospitalization shall be provided. 
iii. In case the accompanying person was already present in that city at the time of 
such hospitalization, we shall only indemnify air expenses incurred to transport 
him from the airport nearest to the site of Hospitalization to his City of Residence 
OR India. 
b. Any kind of other transportation expenses except the expense on airfare is not 
payable under this optional cover 
Note – For Insured Person, City of Residence shall be considered as declared in the 
Proposal Form and mentioned in the Policy Schedule. Whereas, for accompanying 
person, City of Residence shall be considered as mentioned in the legal document 
issued by the Government of that particular country. 
2. Accommodation Expenses 
a. We will also indemnify the cost of accommodation, at a place near to the site of Hospitalization, 
for the accompanying person, to attend to the Insured Person‘s medical treatment overseas. 
===PAGE 25===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
26 
b. Cost of accommodation overseas shall be indemnified upto Rs. 15,000 per day, only for the 
days wherein the Insured person was hospitalized overseas; maximum upto 30 days in a 
Policy Year. 
c. Any other kind of supplementary expenses such as meals, laundry, transport are not payable 
under this cover. 
2.12 PED waiting period modification 
On availing this option, Pre -existing Disease Waiting Period shall stand modified and will be as 
stipulated in the Policy Schedule. All other terms and Conditions of the Policy shall remain 
unaltered. This optional cover is allowed to be opted at channel level only and only at the time of 
policy inception. Policyholders will therefore not be able to opt for the same. This option once 
selected cannot be opted out in the lifetime of the Policy. 
 Below mentioned are the options available under this cover 
1. Modification of PED waiting period from 36 months (as specified under Section C.1.a – Pre-
Existing Diseases) to 24 months (2 years) 
2. Modification of PED waiting period from 36 months (as specified under Section C.1.a – Pre-
Existing Diseases) to 12 months (1 year) 
2.13 Modification of Room Rent 
On availing this option, Room Rent category shall stand modified and will be as stipulated in the 
Policy Schedule. Policyholders may re-configure their selection only at the time of renewals subject 
to company’s discretion. All other terms and conditions pertaining to coverage of Room Rent and 
ICU / ICCU expenses specified in Section B.1.1. – Hospitalization Expenses and Section B.1.1.1. – 
Other Expenses shall remain unaltered. 
Below mentioned are the options available under this cover 
1. Modification of Room category coverage from At Actuals (as specified under Section B.1.1. – 
Hospitalization Expenses) to upto 1% of base sum insured per day AND Modification of ICU / 
ICCU expenses coverage from At Actuals (as specified under Section B.1.1. – Hospitalization 
Expenses) to upto 2% of base sum insured per day 
i. This option is inbuilt in Optima Lite plan where in Room rent expenses shall be covered 
upto 1% of base sum insured per day and ICU / ICCU expenses shall be covered 2% of 
base sum insured per day . The same shall also be clearly specified in Policy Schedule 
against Room Rent and ICU covers under Hospitalization Expenses section. 
ii. This option shall not be available with any other plan of my:Optima Secure product. 
2. Modification of Room category coverage from At Actuals (as specified under Section B.1.1. – 
Hospitalization Expenses) to upto Single Private room 
i. This option is inbuilt in Optima Select plan where in by default Room rent expenses shall 
be covered upto Single Private room while ICU / ICCU expenses shall be covered at 
Actuals. The same shall also be clearly specified in Policy Schedule against Room Rent 
===PAGE 26===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
27 
and ICU covers under Hospitalization Expenses section. 
ii. In Optima Secure plan, Optima Super Secure plan and Optima Secure + plan, customers 
may choose to be covered upto Single Private room while ICU / ICCU expenses shall be 
covered at Actuals. Selection of this option is su bject to Underwriting. If such option is 
selected by customer the same shall also be clearly specified in Policy Schedule against 
Room Rent and ICU covers under Hospitalization Expenses section. 
iii. This option shall not be available with any other plan of my:Optima Secure product except 
those mentioned above. 
3. Modification of Room category coverage from Single Private room (default in Optima Select 
plan) to At Actuals 
i. This option can be selected only by customers of Optima Select plan . By opting for this 
modification, Room rent expenses shall be covered at Actuals  and ICU / ICCU expenses 
shall also be covered at Actuals. The same shall also be clearly specified in Policy Schedule 
against Room Rent and ICU covers under Hospitalization Expenses section. 
ii. This option shall not be available with any other plan of my:Optima Secure product. 
4. Modification of Room category coverage from Single Private room (default in Optima Select 
plan) to Shared room 
i. This option can be selected only by customers of Optima Select plan. By selecting this 
Room rent expenses shall be covered upto Shared room category. However, ICU / ICCU 
expenses shall be covered at Actuals. The same shall also be clearly specified in Poli cy 
Schedule against Room Rent and ICU covers under Hospitalization Expenses section. 
This option shall not be available with any other plan of my:Optima Secure product. 
2.14 Modification of Pre-Hospitalization expenses - Days 
On availing this option, the days upto which Pre -hospitalization medical expenses shall stand 
modified and will be as stipulated against Pre -Hospitalization section in the Policy Schedule. All 
other terms and conditions pertaining to coverage of Pre-Hospitalization expenses (Section B.1.5. 
– Pre-Hospitalization Expenses) shall remain unaltered. 
Below mentioned is the option available under this cover 
1. Modification of Pre -Hospitalization expenses days from 60 days (as specified under  Section 
B.1.5. – Pre-Hospitalization Expenses) to 30 days 
i. This option is inbuilt in Optima Lite plan where in Pre-hospitalization medical expenses 
shall be indemnified only if the same were incurred upto 30 days immediately prior to the 
date of admission. The same shall also be clearly specified in Policy Schedule against Pre-
Hospitalization expenses cover. 
ii. This option shall not be available with any other plan of my:Optima Secure product except 
Optima Lite plan. 
2.15 Modification of Post-Hospitalization expenses - Days 
===PAGE 27===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
28 
On availing this option, the days upto which Post -hospitalization expenses shall stand modified 
and will be as stipulated against Post Hospitalization section in the Policy Schedule. All other terms 
and conditions pertaining to coverage of Post-Hospitalization expenses (Section B.1.6. – Post-
Hospitalization Expenses) shall remain unaltered. 
Below mentioned is the option available under this cover 
1. Modification of Post-Hospitalization expenses days from 180 days (as specified under Section 
B.1.6. – Post-Hospitalization Expenses) to 60 days 
i. This option is inbuilt in Optima Lite plan where in Post -hospitalization medical expenses 
shall be indemnified only if the same were incurred upto 60 days immediately post the 
date of discharge from the Hospital. The same shall also be clearly specified in Policy 
Schedule against Post-Hospitalization expenses cover. 
ii. This option shall not be available with any other plan of my:Optima Secure product except 
Optima Lite plan. 
2.16 Modification of Cumulative Bonus 
On availing this option, the percentage of cumulative bonus provided shall stand modified and will 
be as stipulated against Cumulative Bonus section in the Policy Schedule. All other terms and 
conditions pertaining to Cumulative Bonus (Section B.1.8. – Cumulative Bonus) shall remain 
unaltered. 
Below mentioned is the option available under this cover 
1. Modification of Cumulative bonus from 10% of Base Sum Insured upto 100% (as specified 
under Section B.1.8. – Cumulative Bonus) to 25% of Base Sum Insured upto 100% 
i. This option is inbuilt in Optima Select plan where in a Cumulative Bonus of 25% of Base 
Sum Insured upto 100% shall be provided under the plan. The same shall also be clearly 
specified in Policy Schedule against Cumulative Bonus section. 
This option shall not be available with any other plan of my:Optima Secure product except Optima 
Select plan. 
 
2.17 Infinite Benefit  
 [Inbuilt in ‘Optima Secure +’ plan & optional only for ‘Optima Super Secure’ plan] 
On completion of each policy year , a sum equal to 100% of the expiring policy year’s Base Sum 
Insured shall be provided as an incentive irrespective of claims and mentioned in the Policy 
Schedule under Infinite Benefit, subject to the following conditions: 
a. The accumulated Infinite benefit will be applicable only to the Insured Person(s) covered under 
the expiring Policy and continue to remain insured on Renewal. 
b. Any Infinite benefit once accumulated will be carried forward to the subsequent Policy Year, 
subject to there being no Break in Policy. 
===PAGE 28===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
29 
c. There is no maximum limit on accumulation of Infinite benefit. 
d. The accumulated Infinite Benefit can be utilized only for claims admissible under Section B -1 
(Base Coverage) and Section B-2.3 (Protect Benefit) of the Policy. 
e. Claim payout in a policy year through Infinite benefit shall never exceed the amount 
accumulated under Infinite benefit at the start of such policy year 
Notes: 
i. In case of individual policies, the accumulated Infinite Benefit shall be available individually to 
each Insured Person.  
ii. In case of family floater policies, the accumulated Infinite Benefit shall be available to all 
Insured members on a floater basis. 
iii. If the Insured Persons in the expiring policy are covered on an individual basis and there is 
an accumulated Infinite Benefit for such Insured Persons in the expiring policy, and such 
expiring policy has been Renewed on a family floater basis then the Infi nite Benefit to be 
carried forward for credit in such Renewed Policy shall be the lowest one that is applicable 
among all the Insured Persons. 
iv. In case of floater policies where Insured Persons Renew their expiring policy by splitting the 
Sum Insured in to two or more floater policies/individual policies or in cases where the Policy 
is split due to the child attaining the Age of 25 years, the Infinite Benefit of the expiring policy 
shall be apportioned to such Renewed Policies in the proportion of the Sum In sured of each 
Renewed Policy 
v. If the Sum Insured has been reduced at the time of Renewal, the applicable Infinite Benefit 
shall be reduced in the same proportion to the Sum Insured in current Policy. 
vi. If the Sum Insured under the Policy has been increased at the time of Renewal, the Infinite 
Benefit accumulated shall be basis Base Sum Insured of the expiring Policy Year. 
vii. New Insured Person added to the Policy during subsequent Renewals will be eligible for the 
Infinite Benefit as per their Renewal terms. 
viii. In Optima Super Secure plan this benefit can be opted  by customers only at inception or at 
renewal subject to Company’s discretion. Any accumulated amount in Plus benefit shall get 
carried forward to Infinite benefit upon selection. Either Plus Benefit or Infinite Benefit shall 
be applicable in any given Policy Year. 
3. Renewal Benefit - Preventive Health Check-up 
On completion of each Policy Year where-in this benefit was in force, the Company will indemnify 
the cost of a Preventive Health Check-up for the Insured Persons who were insured during the 
previous Policy Year, up to the amounts specified in this Cover below. 
i. This benefit is available every Policy Year post completion of the first Policy Year irrespective 
of the policy tenure opted.  The tests must be taken only in the Policy Year where -in the 
Insured Person is eligible for this benefit. 
ii. This benefit does NOT carry forward if it is not claimed during the applicable Policy Year and 
===PAGE 29===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
30 
shall not be provided if the Policy is not Renewed further. 
iii. The amount specified in the Policy schedule against this benefit denotes the Company's 
maximum liability in respect to the benefit and shall not reduce the Sum Insured of the policy. 
iv. This cover shall be applicable only if the same is stipulated on the Policy Schedule to be in 
force 
v. In plans where in Preventive Health Check -Up benefit is available as an optional cover, this 
benefit can be opted only at inception or at renewals and once opted the same can be opted 
out at renewals only. 
vi. Preventive Health Check-Up amount that Insured Person is eligible for shall be as per Base 
Sum Insured of expiring Policy Year. 
 
For Individual Policies, the below mentioned limits are applicable for each Insured Person per 
Policy Year. 
Base Sum Insured 
under the Policy 
5 & 7.5 
Lacs 
10 Lacs 15 Lacs 20, 25, 50 & 
75 Lakhs 
100 & 200 
Lacs 
Limit of Cover Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,000 Rs. 4,000 Rs. 5,000 Rs. 8,000 
 
For Family Floater Policies, the below mentioned limits are applicable cumulatively for all Insured 
Persons per Policy Year. 
Base Sum Insured 
under the Policy 
5 & 7.5 
Lacs 
10 Lacs 15 Lacs 20, 25, 50 & 
75 Lakhs 
100 & 200 
Lacs 
Limit of Cover Rs. 2,500 Rs. 5,000 Rs. 8,000 Rs. 10,000 Rs. 15,000 
 
SECTION C. WAITING PERIOD AND EXCLUSIONS 
The Company shall not make payment for any claim in respect of any Insured Person caused by, arising from 
or attributable to any of the following unless expressly stated to the contrary in the Policy: 
1. Waiting Periods 
All the Waiting Periods and exclusions listed below shall be applicable individually for each Insured 
Person and claims shall be assessed accordingly. 
a. Pre-Existing Diseases: Code – Excl01 
i. Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing disease (PED) and its direct complications 
shall be excluded until the expiry of 36 months  (Unless specified otherwise in the Policy 
Schedule) of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first policy with insurer. 
ii. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum 
===PAGE 30===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
31 
Insured increase. 
iii. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
applicable norms on portability/migration stipulated by IRDAI Regulations , then waiting 
period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
iv. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of 36 months for any pre-existing disease is subject 
to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer. 
b. Specified Disease/Procedure waiting period: Code – Excl02 
i. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be 
excluded until the expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of 
the first Policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for clai ms arising due to an 
Accident. 
ii. In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum 
Insured increase. 
iii. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre -
Existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
iv. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or 
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
v. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would 
be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
vi. List of specific diseases/procedures is provided below: 
Illnesses 
 Non infective Arthritis Pilonidal sinus 
Diseases of gall bladder including 
cholecystitis 
calculus diseases of Urogenital 
system e.g.Kidney stone,Urinary 
Bladder Stone 
Benign tumors, cysts, nodules, 
polyps including breast lumps 
Pancreatitis Ulcer and erosion of stomach and 
duodenum Polycystic ovarian diseases 
All forms of Cirrhosis Gastro Esophageal Reflux Disorder 
(GERD) Sinusitis, Rhinitis 
Perineal Abscesses Perianal Abscesses Skin tumors 
Cataract and other disorders of lens 
and Retina 
Fissure/fistula in anus, 
Haemorrhoids including Gout and 
rheumatism 
Tonsillitis 
Osteoarthritis and osteoporosis Fibroids ( fibromyoma) Benign 
Hyperplasia of Prostate 
 
  
===PAGE 31===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
32 
 
Surgical Procedures 
Adenoidectomy, tonsillectomy Tympanoplasty, Mastoidectomy Hernia 
Dilatation and curettage (D&C) Nasal concha resection Surgery for prolapsed inter vertebral 
disc 
Myomectomy for fibroids Surgery of Genito urinary system 
unless necessitated by Malignancy 
Surgery for varicose veins and 
varicose ulcers 
Surgery on prostate Cholecystectomy Surgery for Perianal Abscesses 
Hydrocele/Rectocele Joint replacement surgeries Surgery for Nasal septum deviation 
Ligament, Tendon and Meniscal tear Hysterectomy Fissurectomy, Haemorrhoidectomy, 
Fistulectomy, ENT surgeries 
Endometriosis Prolapsed Uterus Rectal Prolapse 
Varicocele Retinal detachment Glaucoma 
Nasal polypectomy   
 
c. 30-day waiting period: Code – Excl03 
i. Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first Policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, provided the 
same are covered. 
ii. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has continuous coverage for 
more than twelve months. 
iii. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the 
event of granting higher Sum Insured subsequently. 
2. Standard Exclusions 
a. Investigation & Evaluation: Code Excl04 
i. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are 
excluded. 
ii. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and 
treatment are excluded. 
b. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care: Code – Excl05: 
Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. 
This also includes: 
i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with 
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or 
assistant or non-skilled persons. 
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and 
spiritual needs. 
c. Obesity/Weight control: Code – Excl06: 
===PAGE 32===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
33 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
i. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor 
ii. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols 
iii. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
iv. Body Mass Index (BMI) 
A. greater than or equal to 40 or 
B. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities 
following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 
1) Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
2) Coronary heart disease 
3) Severe sleep apnoea 
4) Uncontrolled type2 diabetes 
d. Change-of-Gender treatments: Code – Excl07: Expenses related to any treatment, including 
surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex. 
e. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery: Code – Excl08: Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any 
treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer 
or as part of Medically Necessary Treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the 
insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical 
Practitioner. 
f. Hazardous or Adventure Sports: Code – Excl09: Expenses related to any treatment 
necessitated due to participation as a professional in Hazardous or Adventure sports, including but 
not limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or 
scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving. 
g. Breach of Law: Code – Excl10: Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent 
upon any Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent. 
h. Excluded Providers: Code – Excl11: Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or 
by any Medical Practitioner or any other provider specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed 
in its website/notified to the Policyholders are not admissible. However, in case of Life Threatening 
Situations or following an Accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not 
the complete claim. 
i. Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences 
thereof. Code – Excl12 
j. Treatments received in health hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private 
beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged 
wholly or partly for domestic reasons. Code – Excl13 
k. Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including but not 
===PAGE 33===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
34 
limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a Medical Practitioner 
as part of Hospitalization claim or Day Care procedure. Code – Excl14 
l. Refractive Error: Code – Excl15: Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight 
due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres. 
m. Unproven Treatments: Code – Excl16: Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services 
and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, 
procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to support their effectiveness. 
n. Sterility and Infertility: Code – Excl17: Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This 
includes: 
i. Any type of contraception, sterilization 
ii. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive 
technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI 
iii. Gestational Surrogacy 
iv. Reversal of sterilization. 
o. Maternity: Code – Excl18: 
i. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy; 
ii. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical termination of 
pregnancy during the Policy Period. 
3. Specific Exclusions: 
In addition to the foregoing general exclusions, the Company shall not be liable to make any 
payment under this Policy caused by or arising out of or attributable to any of the following: 
a. War or any act of war, invasion, act of foreign enemy, (whether war be declared or not or 
caused during service in the armed forces of any country), civil war, public defence, rebellion, 
revolution, insurrection, military or usurped acts, Nuclear, Chemical or Biological attack or 
weapons, radiation of any kind. 
b. Aggregate Deductible - Claims/claim amount falling within Aggregate Deductible limit if opted 
and in force, as specified in the Policy Schedule. 
c. Any Insured Person committing or attempting to commit intentional self -injury or attempted 
suicide or suicide. 
d. Any Insured Person’s participation or involvement in naval, military or air force operation. 
e. Investigative treatment for sleep -apnoea, general debility or exhaustion (“run -down 
condition”). 
f. Congenital external diseases, defects or anomalies. 
g. Stem cell harvesting. 
===PAGE 34===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
35 
h. Investigative treatments for analysis and adjustments of spinal sub luxation, diagnosis and 
treatment by manipulation of the skeletal structure or for muscle stimulation by any means 
except treatment of fractures (excluding hairline fractures) and dislocations of the ma ndible 
and extremities. 
i. Circumcisions (unless necessitated by Illness or Injury and forming part of treatment). 
j. Vaccination including inoculation and immunisations (except post animal bite treatment). 
k. Non-Medical expenses such as food charges (other than patient’s diet provided by hospital), 
laundry charges, attendant charges, ambulance collar, ambulance equipment, baby food, 
baby utility charges and other such items. Full list of Non -Medical Expenses i s attached as 
ANNEXURE B and also available at www.hdfcergo.com. 
l. Treatment taken on outpatient basis. 
m. The provision or fitting of hearing aids, spectacles or contact lenses. 
n. Any treatment and associated expenses for alopecia, baldness including cortico  steroids and 
topical immuno  therapy wigs, toupees, hair pieces, any non -surgical hair replacement 
methods, optometric therapy. 
o. Expenses for Artificial limbs and/or device used for diagnosis or treatment (except when used 
intra-operatively), prosthesis, corrective devices external durable medical equipment of any 
kind, wheelchairs, crutches, and oxygen concentrator for bronchial asthma/ COPD conditions, 
cost of cochlear implant(s) unless necessitated by an Accident. 
p. Any treatment or part of a treatment that is not of a reasonable charge and not Medically 
Necessary. Drugs or treatments which are not supported by a prescription. 
q. Any permanent exclusion applied on any medical or physical condition or treatment of an 
Insured Person as specifically mentioned in the Policy Schedule and as specifically accepted 
by Policyholder/Insured Person. Such exclusions shall be applied for the co ndition(s) or 
treatment(s) that otherwise would have resulted in rejection of insurance coverage under this 
Policy to such Insured Person as per Company’s Underwriting Policy. 
 
SECTION D. GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES 
1. Standard General Terms & Clauses 
1.1. Disclosure of Information 
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the 
event of misrepresentation, mis -description or non -disclosure of any material fact by the 
Policyholder. 
1.2. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability 
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company 
to make any payment for claim(s) arising under the policy. 
===PAGE 35===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
36 
1.3. Claim Settlement (provision for Penal Interest) 
a. The Company shall (other than cashless), within 15 days from the date of receipt of 
intimation of claims.. 
b. In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest 
to the Policyholder from the date of receipt of intimation to the date of payment of claim 
at a rate 2% above the bank rate. (Explanation: "Bank rate" shall mean rate fixed by the 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) which is prevalent as on 1 st day of the financial year in 
which the claim has fallen due) 
c. If requested by Us, at Our cost, the Insured Person must submit to medical examination 
by Our Medical Practitioner as often as We consider reasonable and necessary and 
We/Our representatives must be permitted to inspect the medical and Hospitalization 
records pertaining to the Insured Person’s treatment and to investigate the circumstances 
pertaining to the claim. 
d. We and Our representatives must be given all reasonable co -operation in investigating 
the claim in order to assess Our liability and quantum in respect of the claim. 
e.  
1.4. Complete Discharge 
Any payment to the Policyholder, Insured Person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal 
representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the 
Policy shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to  the extent of 
that amount for the particular claim. 
1.5. Multiple Policies 
a. In case of multiple policies taken by an Insured Person during a period from one or more 
insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the Insured Person shall have the right to require 
a settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the 
Insurer chosen by the Insured Person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the 
claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen Policy. 
b. Insured Person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under 
this Policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies even if the Sum 
Insured is not exhausted. Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to 
the terms and conditions of this Policy. 
c. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the Sum Insured under a single Policy, the Insured 
Person shall have the right to choose Insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the 
balance amount. 
d. Where the Insured Person has policies from more than one Insurer to cover the same 
risk on indemnity basis, the Insured Person shall only be indemnified the treatment costs 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen Policy. 
===PAGE 36===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
37 
1.6. Moratorium Period 
After completion of sixty continuous months of coverage (including portability and migration) 
in health insurance policy, no policy and claim shall be contestable by the insurer on grounds 
of non-disclosure, misrepresentation, except on grounds of established fraud. This period of 
sixty continuous months is called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable 
for the sums insured of the first policy. Wherever, the sum insured is enhanced, completion  
of sixty continuous months would be applicable from the date of enhancement of sums insured 
only on the enhanced limits. 
1.7. Fraud 
If any claim made by the Insured Person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, 
or declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are 
used by the Insured Person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under 
this Policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited. 
Any amount already paid against claims made under this Policy but which are found fraudulent 
later shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/Policyholder(s), who have made that particular claim, 
who shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the Insurer. 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts 
committed by the Insured Person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting 
on behalf of the Insured Person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to 
issue an insurance policy: 
a. the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured Person does not 
believe to be true; 
b. the active concealment of a fact by the Insured Person having knowledge or belief of the 
fact; 
c. any other act fitted to deceive; and 
d. any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent. 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the Policy benefits on the ground 
of Fraud, if the Insured Person / beneficiary can prove that the mis-statement was true to the 
best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such 
mis-statement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the Insurer. 
1.8. Free look Period 
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not 
on renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the policy. 
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of thirty days from date of receipt of the 
policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if 
not acceptable. 
If the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled 
===PAGE 37===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
38 
to: 
a. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical 
examination of the insured person and the stamp duty charges or 
b. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised 
by the insured person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of 
cover or 
c. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate 
premium commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period. 
1.9. Renewal of Policy: 
A health insurance policy shall be renewable except on grounds of established fraud or non-
disclosure or misrepresentation by the insured, provided the policy is not withdrawn and also 
subject to conditions stated under Moratorium clause of this schedule. 
a) Renewal of a health insurance policy shall not be denied on the ground that the insured 
had made a claim or claims in the preceding policy years, except for benefit based policies 
where the policy terminates following payment of the benefit covered under t he policy 
like critical illness policies. 
b) The company shall condone a delay in renewal up to the grace period from the due date 
of renewal without considering such condonation as a break in policy. 
c) No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience 
d) The Company shall not resort to fresh underwriting unless there is an increase in sum 
insured. In case increase in sum insured is requested by the Policyholder, the Insurer 
may underwrite only to the extent of increased sum insured. 
e) Renewal premium due can be paid prior to the due date as per norms set out by the 
Company. 
1.10. Portability 
The Insured Person will have the option to port the Policy to other insurers by applying 
to such Insurer to port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, 
at least 30 days before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per 
IRDAI guidelines related to Portability. If such person is presently covered and has been 
continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance policy with an Indian 
General/Health insurer, the proposed Insured Person will get the accrued continuity 
benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on portability. 
1.11. Migration 
The Insured Person will have the option to migrate the Policy to other health insurance 
products/plans offered by the Company by applying for Migration of the policy atleast 30 
days before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If such person 
is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any 
health insurance product/plan offered by the Company, the Insured Person will ge t the 
===PAGE 38===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
39 
accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. 
1.12. Cancellation 
a. The Policyholder may cancel this Policy by giving 7 days’ written notice and in such 
an event, the Company shall refund to the Insured a pro -rata premium for the 
unexpired Policy Period. 
Note : For Policies where premium is paid by instalment : In case of admissible claim 
under the Policy, future instalment for the current Policy Year will be adjusted in the 
claim amount and no refund of any premium will be applicable during the Policy Year. 
b. The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on grounds of established fraud or 
non-disclosure or misrepresentation by the Insured Person by giving 15 days’ written 
notice. There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of 
established fraud or non-disclosure or misrepresentation. 
c. Refund of Policy premium in case of death of Insured Person/s: Policy premium shall 
be refunded proportionately for the deceased Insured Person, for the unexpired 
Policy Period in case of death of any Insured Person/s 
d. Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall 
be made in respect of Cancellation where any claim has been admitted or any benefit 
has been availed by the Insured Person under the Policy. 
1.13. Premium Payment in Instalments 
If the Insured Person has opted for payment of Premium on an instalment basis i.e. 
Yearly, Half Yearly, Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule, the 
following Conditions shall apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the 
Policy): 
a. Grace Period as mentioned in the table below would be given to pay the instalment 
premium due for the Policy 
Options Instalment Premium Option Grace Period applicable 
Option 1 Multi-Year / Yearly 30 days 
Option 2 Half Yearly 30 days 
Option 3 Quarterly 30 days 
Option 4 Monthly 15 Days 
 
b. If premium is paid in instalments then coverage will be available during the grace 
period also. (Note: In case of non-instalment premium payment, coverage shall not 
be available for the period for which no premium is received). 
c. The Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the “Waiting 
Periods”, “Specific Waiting Periods” in the event of payment of premium within the 
stipulated Grace Period 
d. No interest will be charged If the instalment premium is not paid on due date 
===PAGE 39===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
40 
e. In case of instalment premium due not received within the Grace Period, the Policy 
will get cancelled 
f. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately 
become due and payable 
g. The Company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending instalments from 
the claim amount due under the policy. 
1.14. Possibility of Revision of terms of the Policy including the Premium Rates 
The Company, as per IRDAI regulations, may revise or modify the terms of the Policy 
including the premium rates. The Policyholder shall be notified30 days before the changes 
are effected. 
1.15. Withdrawal of Policy 
a. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate 
the Insured Person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy. 
b. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product 
available with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity 
benefits such as Cumulative Bonus, waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI guidelines, 
provided the policy has been maintained without a break. 
  
===PAGE 40===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
41 
1.16. Nomination 
The Policyholder is required at the inception of the Policy to make a nomination for the 
purpose of payment of claims under the Policy in the event of death of the Policyholder. 
Any change of nomination shall be communicated to the Company in writing and such 
change shall be effective only when an endorsement on the Policy is made. In the event 
of death of the Policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee {as named in the Policy 
Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no subsisting 
nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the Policyholder whose discharge 
shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the Policy. 
1.17. Redressal of Grievance 
 
In case of any grievance the insured person may contact the company through: 
First Point of 
Contact  Call us at 022 6158 2020 / 022 6234 6234 / www.hdfcergo.com 
Level 1 
For lack of a response or if the response provided does not meet your 
expectation, you can: 
1.    Write to The Complaints & Grievance Cell (C&G Cell) 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited, D-301, 3rd Floor, Eastern 
Business District (Magnet Mall), LBS Marg, Bhandup (West), Mumbai – 
400078, Maharashtra 
2.      You can also write an email to grievance@hdfcergo.com 
3.      Call on 18002677444 (operational Monday - Saturday 9AM to 6PM) 
Level 2 
If you're not satisfied with the resolution or if no response was received 
within 15 days, you can: 
1.      Write to the Chief Grievance Officer 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited, D-301, 3rd Floor, Eastern 
Business District (Magnet Mall), LBS Marg, Bhandup (West), Mumbai – 
400078, Maharashtra 
2.       You can also write an email to cgo@hdfcergo.com 
Level 3 
In case grievance is not resolved at the above escalation levels, you can also 
lodge an online complaint through the website of Council for Insurance 
Ombudsmen (CIO) www.cioins.co.in 
 
Dedicated Helpline For Email ID Contact Number 
Senior Citizen seniorcitizen@hdfcergo.com 022 6158 2026 
Women - 022 6158 2055 
===PAGE 41===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
42 
You may also refer the Grievance Redressal Escalation matrix on our website 
https://www.hdfcergo.com/customer-voice/grievances 
If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the Insured 
Person may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for redressal 
of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017.  Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI 
Integrated Grievance Management System -https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in 
 
 Specific General Terms and Clauses 
1.18. Non-Disclosure or Misrepresentation of Pre-Existing Disease 
The Company may, notwithstanding and without prejudice to its rights under the standard 
general terms and clauses above, also exercise any of the below listed options for the 
purpose of continuing the health insurance coverage in case of non -disclosure or 
misrepresentation of Pre-Existing Diseases, subject to prior consent from Policyholder: 
a. Permanently exclude the disease/condition and continue with the Policy. 
b. Incorporate additional Waiting Period of not exceeding 3 years for the said 
undisclosed disease or condition from the date the non -disclosed condition was 
detected and continue with the Policy 
c. Levy underwriting loading from the first Policy Year of issuance of Policy or Renewal, 
whichever is later. 
1.19. Utilization of Sum Insured 
The sequence of utilization of Sum Insured in this Policy will be as follows, subject to the 
covers being in force and amount utilized under each of the below sections during the 
Policy Year; 
a. Aggregate Deductible 
b. Base Sum Insured 
c. Secure Benefit 
d.  Either of Cumulative Bonus or Plus Benefit or Infinite Benefit as applicable. 
e. Automatic Restore Benefit 
A single claim in the Policy Year shall never exceed the cumulative addition of 
a. Base Sum Insured, 
b. Secure Benefit (if applicable and remaining during the Policy Year). 
c. Cumulative Bonus (if applicable and remaining during the Policy Year), 
d. Plus Benefit (if applicable and remaining during the Policy Year) AND 
e. Infinite Benefit (if applicable and remaining during the Policy Year) 
  
===PAGE 42===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
43 
1.20. Geography 
This Policy provides coverage throughout the territory of India, except under Section B -
2.8 (E -Opinion for Critical Illness), Section B -2.9 Global Health Cover (Emergency 
Treatments Only), Section B -2.10 Global Health Cover (Emergency & Planned 
Treatments), B-2.11 Overseas Travel Secure and as may be specified in the Schedule of 
Coverage in the Policy Schedule. 
1.21. Loadings 
a. The Company may apply loading on the premium, specific Waiting Period or 
permanent exclusions, based on the declarations made in the Proposal Form and the 
health status, habits and lifestyle, past medical records, and the results of the pre -
Policy medical examination of the persons proposed to be insured under the Policy. 
b. The maximum medical underwriting loading shall not exceed 100% for each 
condition and a total of 150% for each Insured Person. 
c. Loadings shall be applied from Commencement Date including subsequent 
Renewal(s), and on increased Sum Insured. 
d. Proposer shall be informed about the proposed loading with premium, specific 
Waiting Period or permanent exclusion (if any) through a counter offer letter and 
Policy will be issued only on specific acceptance within 15 days of the receipt of such 
counter offer letter. In case the Company does not receive any response to the 
counter offer letter from the proposer within 15 days, the application shall be 
cancelled and any premium received shall be refunded within 7 days. 
1.22. Endorsements 
This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be modified 
by anyone (including an insurance agent or broker) except the Company. Any change or 
modification that the Company makes will be evidenced by a written endorsement signed 
and stamped by the Company. 
1.23. Communication & Notice 
Policy and any communication related to the Policy shall be sent to through electronic 
modes or to the address of the following: 
a. The Policyholder’s, at the address/ e-mail address specified in the Policy Schedule. 
b. To the Company, at the address specified in the Policy Schedule. 
c. Insurance agents, brokers, other person or entity is/are not authorised to receive any 
notice on the behalf of the Company, unless stated in writing by the Company. 
1.24. Premium Tier 
The premium payable under the Policy will be computed basis the city of residence 
provided by the Insured Person in the Proposal Form. Classification of cities would be as 
under: 
===PAGE 43===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
44 
a. Tier 1: Delhi, Surat, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida. 
b. Tier 2: Mumbai, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Vadodara. 
c. Tier 3: Nashik, Rest of NCR, Amritsar, Ahmednagar, Mathura, Aligarh. 
d. Tier 4: Kolkata, Rest of Gujarat, Telangana, Agra, Ludhiana, Beed, Jalgaon, Indore, 
Gwalior. 
e. Tier 5: Rest of Maharashtra, Rest of Uttar Pradesh, Rest of Madhya Pradesh, Rest of 
Rajasthan, Rest of Haryana, Howrah,  Hooghly, North 24 Parganas, South 24 
Parganas. 
f. Tier 6: Rest of India.  
No co-payment shall apply if Insured Person from a lower tier avails a treatment in 
higher tier. For example: Insured Person buying policy from Tier 4 can avail treatment 
in Tier 1 without any co-payment. 
1.25. Instalment Premium payment through Auto Debit/ECS Facility 
a. If premium payment is opted for by instalments through auto debit/ECS facility, a 
separate authorization form shall be submitted by Insured Person specifying the 
frequency chosen for premium to be debited. 
b. Where there is a change either in the terms and conditions of the coverage or Policy 
or in the premium rate, the ECS authorization shall be obtained afresh. 
c. The Insured Person has the option to withdraw from the ECS mode at least fifteen 
days prior to the due date of instalment premium payable. 
d. No additional charges will be levied or recovered in any manner from the benefits 
payable towards cancellation of the ECS mode. 
1.26. Dispute Resolution Clause 
Any and all disputes or differences under or in relation to this Policy shall be determined 
by the Indian Courts and subject to Indian law 
 
1.27. Eligibility 
▪ This Policy covers Insured Persons in the age group of 91 days and above.  
▪ The minimum entry age for an adult is 18 years and there is no limit on maximum entry 
age.  
▪ The minimum entry age for a dependent child (i.e. natural or legally adopted) is 91 days 
and maximum entry age is 25 years.  
▪ Dependent Child between 91 days and upto 5 years can be insured provided either of the 
parent is getting insured under this Policy.  
▪ Dependent Child more than age of 5 years and below 26 years can be insured on Individual 
basis wherein proposer may not be an insured. 
▪ When the child attains the age of 25 years, he or she shall be ineligible for coverage in 
the subsequent renewals and will be migrated to a new Policy, with continuity benefits. 
===PAGE 44===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
45 
▪ There is no maximum cover ceasing age on renewals.  
▪ The family includes following relationships: spouse, dependent children, parents and 
parents-in-law.  
▪ In a family floater Policy, a maximum of 4 adults and a maximum of 6 dependent children 
can be included in a single Policy. The 4 adults can be a combination of self, spouse, 
parents and parents- in-law.  
▪ In an individual Policy, a maximum of 6 adults and a maximum of 6 dependent children 
can be included in a single Policy. List of relationships which can be included is mentioned 
below: 
 
i. Spouse  
ii. Son  
iii. Daughter 
iv. Father  
v. Mother  
vi. Father-in-law  
vii. Mother in-law 
viii. Daughter-in-law  
ix. Son-in-Law  
x. Grandfather 
xi. Grandmother 
 
xii. Grandson  
xiii. Granddaughter 
xiv. Brother  
xv. Sister  
xvi. Sister-in-law  
xvii. Brother-in-law  
xviii. Nephew  
xix. Niece 
 
▪ For Individual / Floater Employer – Employee policies - It is mandatory that the Employee 
is an Insured under the policy 
▪ For Individual / Floater Employer – Employee policies: A maximum of 2  adults and a 
maximum of 6 dependent children can be included in a single Policy. The 2 adults can be 
a combination of  
o Employee 
o Employee’s Spouse 
The 6 dependent children can be a combination of 
o Employee’s Son(s) 
o Employee’s Daughter(s) 
 
  
===PAGE 45===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
46 
1.28. Favourable Claims Experience Discount 
 This policy  is eligible for a discount on premium basis Hospitalization claims (which 
includes either In-patient Care or Day Care treatment) made in the last 2 policy years. 
a. For new buyers of Health Insurance policy where-in NO claim experience is available 
for all insured person(s), discount eligibility shall be as below: 
Premium applicable for 
(policy year) Plan applicable 1st  Year 2nd  Year 3rd Year 4th Year 5th Year 
Discount (%) applicable 
on premium of each policy 
year basis policy tenure 
opted 
All plans except ‘Optima 
Secure Global Plus’ plan 21% 18% 10% 10% 10% 
For ‘Optima Secure 
Global Plus’ plan 5.25% 4.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 
 
b. For policies wherein all Insured Persons have served only 1 year in a health insurance 
policy (either with HDFC ERGO or with any other insurer), discount eligibility shall be 
as below: 
Premium applicable for 
(policy year) 
Plan 
Applicable 1st  Year 2nd  Year 3rd Year 4th Year 5th Year 
Discount (%) 
applicable on 
premium of 
each policy 
year basis 
policy tenure 
opted 
In case 
of claim 
in last 
policy 
year 
All plans 
except ‘Optima 
Secure Global 
Plus’ plan 
11% 6% 6% 6% 6% 
For ‘Optima 
Secure Global 
Plus’ plan 
2.75% 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% 
In case 
of NO 
claim in 
last 
policy 
year 
All plans 
except ‘Optima 
Secure Global 
Plus’ plan 
18% 10% 10% 10% 10% 
For ‘Optima 
Secure Global 
Plus’ plan 
4.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 
 
 Note: As ‘Favourable claims experience discount‘ is calculated at policy level, hence, eligibility of 
discount shall be on the basis of those Insured Person(s) who have claims experience under a 
health insurance policy. 
  
===PAGE 46===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
47 
c. For policies wherein any Insured Person(s) have served 2 or more years in a health 
insurance policy (either with HDFC ERGO or with any other insurer) , discount 
eligibility shall be as below: 
 
Notes pertaining to  calculation and applicability of  Favourable Claim s 
Experience Discount 
a. For calculation of favourable claim s experience discount, a claim in policy year shall 
mean any hospitalization related claim made during the policy year irrespective of the 
claim amount and number of such claims. 
b. Utilization of preventive health check‑up shall not be considered a claim for the purpose 
Premium applicable for 
(policy year) 
Plan 
Applicable 1st Year 2nd  Year 3rd Year 4th Year 5th Year 
Discount 
(%) 
applicable 
on 
premium of 
each policy 
year basis 
policy 
tenure 
opted 
In case of 
claim in both 
last policy 
year & year 
prior to last 
policy year  
All plans 
except 
‘Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus’ 
plan 
0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 
For ‘Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus’ 
plan 
0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 
In case of 
claim in 
EITHER last 
policy year OR 
year prior to 
last policy 
year  
All plans 
except 
‘Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus’ 
plan 
6% 6% 6% 6% 6% 
For ‘Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus’ 
plan 
1.50% 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% 
In case of NO 
claim in last 
policy year & 
NO claim in 
year prior to 
last policy 
year 
All plans 
except 
‘Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus’ 
plan 
10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 
For ‘Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus’ 
plan 
2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 
===PAGE 47===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
48 
of calculating the favourable claims experience discount. 
c. Hospitalization claim(s) made either within India or outside India shall be considered 
as claims for calculation of ‘Favourable claims experience discount’. 
d. If in a policy, an insured person is aged 60 years or above at the start of a policy year 
then only that insured person shall not be eligible for Favourable Claim s Experience 
Discount for such policy year(s). 
e. After issuance of renewal notice, if a hospitalization claim has been made in the 
remainder of the policy year, such claims shall be considered for calculation of 
‘Favourable claims experience discount’ in the next renewal. 
f. In case of any misrepresentation or non‑disclosure relating to previous claim history of 
the Insured Persons in the proposal form or underwriting documents, the Company 
may recover the discounted premium offered earlier either from the Policy renewal 
premium or set‑off against claim. The Company may also cancel the Policy in 
accordance with Standard General Terms & Clauses 1.12 (b) of the policy. 
Illustration pertaining to calculation and applicability of Favourable Claims Experience 
Discount:  
If a new customer with NO prior claims experience, aged 40 years and residing in 
Mumbai buys a 4-year Optima Secure + plan of Base sum insured of 10 Lakh then, 
Premium 
applicable for 
Premium Amount 
(₹) 
Favourable claims experience 
discount (%) 
Effective premium 
after discount (₹) 
1st policy year 20,775 21% 16,412 
2nd policy year 21,700 18% 17,794 
3rd policy year 21,915 10% 19,724 
4th policy year 22,130 10% 19,917 
Premium for 4 Year policy tenure after Favourable claims experience discount 
[excl. GST] (₹) 73,847 
 
  
===PAGE 48===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
49 
 
SECTION E. OTHER TERMS AND CLAUSES 
1. Claims Procedure 
1.1. Notification of a Claim 
 Notice with full particulars shall be sent to the Company as under: 
a. Within 24 hours from the date of emergency Hospitalization required or before the Insured 
Person’s discharge from Hospital, whichever is earlier. 
b. At least 48 hours prior to admission in Hospital in case of a planned Hospitalization or 
decision to avail treatment under Section B-1.2 (Home Health Care). 
1.2. Procedure for Cashless Claims In India 
a. Treatment may be taken in a Network Provider and is subject to pre authorization by the 
Company. 
b. Cashless request form is available with the Network Provider. 
c. The Network Provider shall obtain the relevant information from the Insured Person / 
Policyholder and send a Cashless Facility request to the Company for authorization. 
d. The Company upon getting cashless request form and related medical information from 
the Insured Person/ Network Provider shall issue pre-authorization letter to the Network 
Provider after verification. 
e. At the time of discharge, the Insured Person shall verify and sign the discharge papers 
along with final bill, pay for non-medical and inadmissible expenses. 
f. The Company reserves the right to deny pre-authorization in case the Insured Person is 
unable to provide the relevant medical details. 
g. In case of denial of cashless access, the Insured Person may obtain the treatment as per 
treating doctor’s advice and submit the claim documents to the Company for 
reimbursement. 
1.3. Procedure for Cashless Claims Outside India 
a. You shall intimate the Claims to us through any available mode of communication as 
specified in the Policy, Health Card or our Website 
b. Treatment may be taken in a Network Provider and is subject to pre-authorization by the 
Company. Process for obtaining Pre-Authorization is mentioned below: 
i. We shall send Release of Information form to the Insured Person for signature and 
consent. 
ii. After receiving the signed Release of Information form, We will retrieve 
hospitalization documents along with invoices 
iii. If these details are not provided in full or are insufficient for us to consider the 
===PAGE 49===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
50 
request, We will request additional information or documentation 
iv. On receipt of the complete documents We may 
• issue the guarantee of payment specifying the sanctioned amount, any specific 
limitation on the claim and non-payable items, if applicable 
or 
• reject the request for pre-authorization specifying reasons for the rejection 
1.4. Procedure for Cashless Claims in case of Home Health Care (Section B-1.2) 
On receipt of duly filled pre authorization form with other sufficient details to assess a cashless 
request, the Company will inform the Home Healthcare service provider or Network Provider, 
who will share the care plan and treatment cost estimation with t he Company. On receipt of 
the complete documents the Company may: 
a. issue the authorization letter specifying the sanctioned amount, any specific limitation on 
the claim and non-payable items, if applicable, or 
b. reject the request for pre-authorization specifying reasons for the rejection. 
1.5. Conditions for obtaining Cashless Facility within India 
a. Cashless facility can be availed only at Company’s Network Provider. The complete list of 
Network Providers and empanelled service providers is available on Company’s website 
and can also be obtained by contacting the Company. 
b. The Company reserves the right to modify, add or restrict any Network Provider for 
Cashless facility at its sole discretion. The same shall be duly updated on the Company’s 
website. The Insured Person shall check the updated list of Network Providers befor e 
applying for cashless claim. 
c. Pre-authorization issued by the Company shall be valid for 15 days from the date of 
issuance (or expiry of the Policy, whichever is earlier). 
d. The Company shall make payment for the Cashless facility to the authorized amount, 
directly to the Network Provider. 
1.6. Procedure for Reimbursement Claims 
For reimbursement of claims, the Insured Person shall submit the necessary documents to the 
Company within the prescribed time limit as specified hereunder. 
Type of Claim Prescribed Time limit 
Reimbursement of Hospitalization, Day Care 
Treatment or Pre-Hospitalization Expenses Within 30 days of date of discharge from Hospital. 
Reimbursement of Post-Hospitalization Expenses Within 15 days from completion of post 
Hospitalization treatment. 
 
1.7. List of documents required for a Claim 
===PAGE 50===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
51 
The reimbursement claim is to be supported with the following documents and submitted 
within the prescribed time limit. 
a. Duly Completed claim form, 
b. Photo ID and Age Proof, 
c. Copy of the Hospital’s Registration Certificate/Hospital Registration number in case of 
Hospitalization in any non-Network Provider of the Company or certificate from Hospital 
authorities providing facilities available including number of beds, 
d. Discharge Card / Day Care Summary / Transfer Summary, 
e. Final Hospital bill with all original deposit and final payment receipt and refund receipt(s), 
if advance amount refunded, 
f. Invoice with payment receipt and implant stickers for all implants used during Surgeries 
e.g. lens sticker and invoice in cataract Surgery, stent invoice and sticker in Angioplasty 
Surgery, 
g. All previous consultation papers indicating history and treatment details for current Illness 
and advice for current Hospitalization, 
h. All diagnostic reports (including imaging and laboratory) along with prescription by 
Medical Practitioner and invoice / bill with receipt from diagnostic centre, 
i. All medicine / pharmacy bills along with prescription by Medical Practitioner, 
j. MLC / FIR Copy – in Accident cases only, 
k. History of alcohol consumption or any intoxication certified by first treating doctor in case 
of Accident cases, 
l. Copy of Death Summary and copy of Death Certificate (in death claims only), 
m. Copy of indoor case papers with nursing sheet detailing medical history of the Insured 
Person, treatment details, and patient’s progress (to be submitted wherever required by 
the Company). 
n. Invoice for vaccination and payment receipt, 
o. Original invoices for the expenses incurred towards ambulance facility along with details 
of loss in the Company’s prescribed format, 
p. KYC documents (in all claims above Rs. 1 lakh) of the Policyholder as per AML guidelines, 
q. Duly filled NEFT form with cancelled blank cheque (with IFSC code, A/C number, and 
name mentioned on cheque leaf), 
r. Legal heir/succession certificate, wherever applicable, 
s. Additional documents for claims outside India of Insured Person and Accompanying 
Person (as applicable) – 
i. Passport copy with entry and exit stamps 
===PAGE 51===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
52 
ii. Flight Tickets and Boarding Pass, if applicable 
iii. Accommodation Invoices, if applicable 
iv. Written advice from the overseas treating Medical Practitioner for requirement of an 
accompanying person during treatment. 
t. Any other relevant document required by Company for assessment of the claim. 
Note: 
i. The Company shall only accept bills/invoices/medical treatment related documents only 
in the Insured Person’s name for whom the claim is submitted. 
ii. In the event of a claim lodged under the Policy and the original documents having been 
submitted to any other insurer, the Company shall accept the copy of the documents and 
claim settlement advice, duly certified by the other insurer subject to satisfacti on of the 
Company. 
iii. If requested by the Company, at the Company’s cost, the Insured Person must submit to 
medical examination by Medical Practitioner appointed by the Company as often as it is 
considered reasonable and necessary and Company’s representatives must be permitted 
to inspect the medical and Hospitalization records pertaining to the Insured Person’s 
treatment, and to investigate the circumstances pertaining to the claim. 
iv. Any delay in notification or submission may be condoned on merit where delay is proved 
to be for reasons beyond the control of the Insured Person. 
2. Contact Us 
 Within India Outside India 
Claim Intimation: Customer Service No. 022-62346234 / 
0120-62346234 
Email: healthclaims@hdfcergo.com 
Reimbursement Claim Intimation: Visit 
www.hdfcergo.com - > Help - > Claim 
Registration 
Global Contact No : +800 
08250825 (accessible from 
locations outside India only) 
Landline no (Chargeable) : 0120-
4507250 
Emailtravelclaims@hdfcergo.com 
Claim document 
submission at 
address: 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Stellar IT Park, Tower-1 
5th Floor, C - 25, Sector 62 
Noida – 0120 398 8360 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
Co Ltd 
6th Floor, Leela Business Park, 
Andheri Kurla Road, Andheri East, 
Mumbai-400059, 
Ph-022 66383600 
 
  
===PAGE 52===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
53 
Annexure A  
Contact details of Offices of Insurance Ombudsman 
 
Office Details 
Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory, District) 
AHMEDABAD 
 
Shri Collu Vikas Rao 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, 
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, 
Ahmedabad – 380 001. 
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02 
Email: oio.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in 
Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman 
and Diu. 
BENGALURU 
 
Ms Neerja Kapur 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Soudha Building, PID No. 57-27-N-19 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, 
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 
Email: oio.bengaluru@cioins.co.in 
Karnataka. 
BHOPAL 
 
Shri Ajay Kumar 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
1st floor,"Jeevan Shikha", 
60-B,Hoshangabad Road,  
Opp. Gayatri Mandir, Arera Hills 
Bhopal – 462 011. 
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 / 2769203 
Email: oio.bhopal@cioins.co.in  
Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh. 
BHUBANESWAR 
 
Shri Bimbadhar Pradhan 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
62, Forest park, 
Bhubaneswar – 751 009. 
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 
/2596455/2596429/2596003 
Email: oio.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in 
Odisha. 
===PAGE 53===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
54 
 
Office Details 
Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory, District) 
CHANDIGARH 
 
Ms Alka Jha 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of The Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Deep Building SCO 20-27, 
Ground Floor Sector- 17 A, 
Chandigarh – 160 017. 
Tel.: 0172-2706468 
Email: oio.chandigarh@cioins.co.in 
Punjab, Haryana (excluding Gurugram, 
Faridabad, Sonepat and Bahadurgarh), 
Himachal Pradesh, Union Territories of 
Jammu & Kashmir,Ladakh & 
Chandigarh. 
CHENNAI 
 
Shri K.Vinayak Rao 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, 
Anna Salai, Teynampet, 
Chennai – 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24333678 
Email: oio.chennai@cioins.co.in 
Tamil Nadu, PuducherryTown and 
Karaikal (which are part of 
Puducherry). 
 
DELHI 
 
Ms Sunita Sharma 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, 
Asaf Ali Road, 
New Delhi – 110 002. 
Tel.: 011 - 46013992/23213504/23232481 
Email: oio.delhi@cioins.co.in  
 
Delhi & following Districts of Haryana - 
Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat & 
Bahadurgarh. 
GUWAHATI 
 
Shri Ajay Kumar Sharma 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, 
Near Pan Bazar , S.S. Road, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205 / 2631307 
Email: oio.guwahati@cioins.co.in 
Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and 
Tripura. 
  
===PAGE 54===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
55 
HYDERABAD 
 
Ms. G Shobha Reddy 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", 
Lane Opp.Hyundai Showroom , 
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,  
Hyderabad - 500 004. 
Tel.: 040 - 23312122 / 23376991 / 
23376599 / 23328709 / 23325325 
Email:  oio.hyderabad@cioins.co.in 
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Yanam 
and part of Union Territory of 
Puducherry. 
JAIPUR 
 
Shri Satyajeet Rajan 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, 
Bhawani Singh Marg, 
Jaipur - 302 005. 
Tel.: 0141- 2740363 
Email: oio.jaipur@cioins.co.in 
Rajasthan. 
KOCHI 
 
Shri Pradeep Kumar Jain 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
10th Floor, Jeevan Prakash, LIC Building, 
Opp to Maharaja's College Ground, 
M.G.Road, Kochi - 682 011. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 
Email: oio.ernakulam@cioins.co.in 
Kerala, Lakshadweep, Mahe-a part of 
Union Territory of Puducherry. 
KOLKATA 
 
Ms Kiran Sahdev 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 7th Floor, 
4, C.R. Avenue, 
Kolkata - 700 072. 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124341 
Email: oio.kolkata@cioins.co.in  
West Bengal, Sikkim, Andaman & 
Nicobar Islands. 
  
===PAGE 55===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
56 
LUCKNOW 
 
Shri. Atul Sahai 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 4002082 / 3500613 
Email: oio.lucknow@cioins.co.in  
Districts of Uttar Pradesh : Lalitpur, 
Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, 
Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, 
Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, 
Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, 
Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, 
Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, 
Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, 
Ballia, Sidharathnagar. 
MUMBAI 
 
Ms Sarojini S Dikhale 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054. 
Tel.: 022 - 69038800/27/29/31/32/33 
Email: oio.mumbai@cioins.co.in 
List of wards under Mumbai 
Metropolitan Region excluding wards in 
Mumbai –  
i.e M/E, M/W, N, S and T covered 
under 
Office of Insurance Ombudsman Thane 
and  
areas of Navi Mumbai. 
NOIDA 
 
Shri Bimbadhar Pradhan 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Bhagwan Sahai Palace 
4th Floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, 
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301. 
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253 
Email: oio.noida@cioins.co.in 
State of Uttarakhand and the following 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh: Agra, 
Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, 
Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kannauj, 
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, 
Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, 
Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, 
Firozbad, Gautam Buddh nagar, 
Ghaziabad, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, 
Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, 
Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur. 
PATNA 
 
Ms Susmita Mukherjee 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2nd Floor, Lalit Bhawan, 
Bailey Road, 
Patna 800 001. 
Tel.: 0612-2547068 
Email: oio.patna@cioins.co.in 
Bihar, Jharkhand. 
  
===PAGE 56===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
57 
PUNE 
 
Shri Sunil Jain 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, 
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C. Kelkar Road, 
Narayan Peth, Pune – 411 030. 
Tel.: 020-24471175 
Email: oio.pune@cioins.co.in 
State of Goa and State of Maharashtra 
excluding areas of Navi Mumbai, Thane 
district, Palghar District, Raigad district 
& Mumbai Metropolitan Region 
THANE 
 
Shri Umesh Sinha 
Insurance Ombudsman 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2nd Floor,Jeevan Chintamani Building, 
Vasantrao Naik Mahamarg, 
Thane (West)- 400604 
Tel.: 022-20812868/69 
Email: oio.thane@cioins.co.in 
Area of Navi Mumbai, Thane District, 
Raigad District, Palghar District and 
wards of Mumbai, M/East,  
M/West, N, S and T." 
 
For updated list of Insurance Ombudsman details including Name, Address and jurisdiction, kindly 
visit: https://irdai.gov.in/ombudsman  
Alternatively, you can also access the details by visiting: 
  https://www.coins.co.in/Ombudsman. 
 
Annexure B List I - Items for which Coverage is not available in the Policy (Non-Medical 
Expenses) 
S. NO. ITEM S. NO. ITEM 
1 BABY FOOD 35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE 
OUTSIDE HOSPITAL) 
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 36 SPACER 
3 BEAUTY SERVICES 37 SPIROMETRE 
4 BELTS/ BRACES 38 NEBULIZER KIT 
5 BUDS 39 STEAM INHALER 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 40 ARMSLING 
7 CARRY BAGS 41 THERMOMETER 
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 42 CERVICAL COLLAR 
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN 
PATIENT'S DIET PROVIDED BY 
HOSPITAL) 
43 SPLINT 
10 LEGGINGS 44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED) 
12 MINERAL WATER 46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER 
IMMOBILIZER 
===PAGE 57===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
58 
13 SANITARY PAD 47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT 
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES 48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED 
CHARGES 
15 GUEST SERVICES 49 AMBULANCE COLLAR 
16 CREPE BANDAGE 50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 51 ABDOMINAL BINDER 
18 EYELET COLLAR 52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL 
NURSING CHARGES 
19 SLINGS 53 SUGAR FREE TABLETS 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS 
MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES 
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS 
(TOILETRIES ARE NOT PAYABLE, ONLY 
PRESCRIBED MEDICAL 
PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE) 
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING 
CHARGE ALSO CHARGED 
55 ECG ELECTRODES 
22 TELEVISION CHARGES 56 GLOVES 
23 SURCHARGES 57 NEBULISATION KIT 
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES 58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS 
MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHO 
KIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC.] 
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN 
THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED 
CHARGE) 
59 KIDNEY TRAY 
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 60 MASK 
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 61 OUNCE GLASS 
28 COURIER CHARGES 62 OXYGEN MASK 
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES 63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT 
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 64 PAN CAN 
31 MEDICAL RECORDS 65 TROLLY COVER 
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 66 UROMETER, URINE JUG 
33 MORTUARY CHARGES 67 AMBULANCE 
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES 68 VASOFIX SAFETY 
 
List II - Items That Are To Be Subsumed Into Room Charges 
S. NO. ITEM S. NO. ITEM 
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS 
SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS 
2 HAND WASH 20 LUXURY TAX 
3 SHOE COVER 21 HVAC 
4 CAPS 22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
5 CRADLE CHARGES 23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
6 COMB 24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES  
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM 25 CLEAN SHEET 
===PAGE 58===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
59 
FRESHNERS 
8 FOOT COVER 26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET 
9 GOWN 27 ADMISSION KIT 
10 SLIPPERS  28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 
11 TISSUE PAPER 29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / 
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
12 TOOTH PASTE 30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
13 TOOTH BRUSH 31 DAILY CHART CHARGES 
14 BED PAN 32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS 
CHARGES 
15 FACE MASK 33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON 
DISCHARGE 
16 FLEXI MASK 34 FILE OPENING CHARGES 
17 HAND HOLDER 35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES 
(NOT EXPLAINED) 
18 SPUTUM CUP  36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME 
TAG 
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES 
===PAGE 59===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, 
Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 059.  
UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 
60 
List III - Items That Are To Be Subsumed Into Procedure Charges 
 
 
List IV - Items That Are To Be Subsumed Into Costs Of Treatment 
Notes: 
• Claims are being processed based on the applicable policy terms and conditions, even if these 
charges are billed separately by the health care providers. 
• Items mentioned under List II, Li st III and List IV  are allowed if these are within the scope of 
coverage.
S. NO. ITEM S. NO. ITEM 
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 13 SURGICAL DRILL 
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for 
site preparations) 
14 EYE KIT  
3 EYE PAD 15 EYE DRAPE 
4 EYE SHEILD 16 X-RAY FILM 
5 CAMERA COVER 17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
6 DVD, CD CHARGES 18 COTTON 
7 GAUSE SOFT 19 COTTON BANDAGE 
8 GAUZE 20 SURGICAL TAPE 
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING 
CHARGES 
21 APRON 
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY 
INSTRUMENTS 
22 TORNIQUET  
11 MICROSCOPE COVER  23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 
12 SURGICAL BLADES, 
HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER 
S. NO. ITEM S. NO. ITEM 
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES 10 HIV KIT 
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ 
DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 
3 URINE CONTAINER 12 LOZENGES 
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND 
ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES 
13 MOUTH PAINT 
5 BIPAP MACHINE 14 VACCINATION CHARGES 
6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS 15 ALCOHOL SWABES 
7 INFUSION PUMP– COST 16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM 
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ 
DISINFECTANTS ETC 
17 GLUCOMETER& STRIPS 
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - 
DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES  
18 URINE BAG 
===PAGE 60===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai – 400 059. UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 61 
 
Annexure C - Plan Chart: 
Schedule of Benefits for all plans under my: Optima Secure 
 
Section Plans Optima 
Suraksha Optima Secure Optima Super Secure 
Optima 
Secure 
Global 
Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus 
Optima 
Select 
Optima 
Lite 
Optima Secure 
+ 
All 
figures in 
₹ 
Base Sum Insured 
[BSI] (in Lakh) 
5/10/15/20/25/50 
Lakhs 
5/10/15/20/25/50/ 
100/200 Lakhs 
10/15/20/25/50/100/200 
Lakhs 
100/200 
Lakhs 
25/50/75/100/ 
200 Lakhs 
5/7.5/10/15/ 
20/ 25 Lakhs 
5/7.5 
Lakhs 
5/10/15/20/25/50/ 
100/200 Lakhs 
 ^Geography India only India only India only 
Worldwide 
including 
India 
Worldwide 
including 
India 
India only India 
only India only 
1.1 Hospitalization 
Expenses Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered 
1.1.a Room Rent At Actuals At Actuals At Actuals At Actuals At Actuals Upto Single 
Private room 
Upto 1% 
of base 
sum 
insured per 
day 
 
At Actuals 
1.1.b ICU At Actuals At Actuals At Actuals At Actuals At Actuals At Actuals 
Upto 2% 
of base 
sum 
insured per 
day 
At Actuals 
===PAGE 61===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai – 400 059. UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 62 
Section Plans Optima 
Suraksha Optima Secure Optima Super Secure 
Optima 
Secure 
Global 
Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus 
Optima 
Select 
Optima 
Lite 
Optima Secure 
+ 
1.1.1. i. Road Ambulance Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
1.1.1. ii. 
Dental 
Treatment(Accidental 
Hospitalization only) 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
1.1.1. iii. Plastic surgery Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
1.1.1. iv. Day Care Treatment Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
1.2 Home Healthcare Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
(India only) 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
(India only) 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
1.3 Domiciliary 
Hospitalization 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
(India only) 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
(India only) 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
===PAGE 62===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai – 400 059. UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 63 
Section Plans Optima 
Suraksha Optima Secure Optima Super Secure 
Optima 
Secure 
Global 
Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus 
Optima 
Select 
Optima 
Lite 
Optima Secure 
+ 
1.4 AYUSH Treatment Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
1.5 Pre-Hospitalization 60 days 60 days 60 days 
60 days 
(India only) 
60 days 60 days 30 days 60 days 
1.6 Post-Hospitalization 180 days 180 days 180 days 
180 days 
(India only) 
180 days 180 days 60 days 180 days 
1.7 Organ Donor 
Expenses 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto sum 
insured 
===PAGE 63===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai – 400 059. UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 64 
Section Plans Optima 
Suraksha Optima Secure Optima Super Secure 
Optima 
Secure 
Global 
Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus 
Optima 
Select 
Optima 
Lite 
Optima Secure 
+ 
1.8 Cumulative Bonus 
10% of the Base 
Sum Insured 
maximum upto 
100% post 
completion of 
each policy year 
irrespective of 
claims. 
Not Covered Not Covered Not Covered Not Covered 
25% of the 
Base Sum 
Insured 
maximum 
upto 100% 
post 
completion of 
each policy 
year 
irrespective 
of claims 
10% of the 
Base Sum 
Insured 
maximum 
upto 100% 
post 
completion 
of each 
policy year 
irrespective 
of claims 
Not Covered 
2.1 Emergency Air 
Ambulance 
Covered Up to 
500,000 
Covered Up to 
500,000 Covered Up to 500,000 Covered Up 
to 500,000 
Covered Up to 
500,000 Not Covered 
Covered 
Up to 
500,000 
Covered Up to 
500,000 
2.2 
Daily Cash for 
choosing Shared 
Accommodation 
800 per day 
max up to 4800 
800 per day 
max upto 4800 
1000 per day 
max up to 6000 
800 per day 
max upto 
4800 
(India only) 
800 per day 
max upto 4800 
(India only) 
Not Covered 
800 per 
day 
max upto 
4800 
800 per day 
max upto 4800 
===PAGE 64===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai – 400 059. UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 65 
Section Plans Optima 
Suraksha Optima Secure Optima Super Secure 
Optima 
Secure 
Global 
Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus 
Optima 
Select 
Optima 
Lite 
Optima Secure 
+ 
2.3 Protect Benefit Not Covered 
Default: Covered 
upto sum insured  
Optional: To 
remove benefit 
Default: Covered upto 
sum insured  
Optional: To remove 
benefit 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
Covered upto 
sum insured Optional Optional 
Default: Covered 
upto sum insured  
Optional: To 
remove benefit 
2.4 Plus Benefit Not Covered 
Bonus of 50% of 
the Base Sum 
Insured, maximum 
upto 100%. 
Bonus of 50% of the 
Base Sum Insured, 
maximum upto 100%. 
Bonus of 
50% of the 
Base Sum 
Insured, 
maximum 
upto 100%. 
Bonus of 50% 
of the Base 
Sum Insured, 
maximum upto 
100%. 
Optional 
(Bonus of 
50% of the 
Base Sum 
Insured, 
maximum 
upto 100%) 
Optional 
(Bonus of 
50% of the 
Base Sum 
Insured, 
maximum 
upto 
100%) 
Not Covered 
2.5 Secure Benefit Not Covered Equal to 100% of 
Base sum insured 
Equal to 200% of Base 
sum insured 
Equal to 
100% of 
Base sum 
insured 
(India only) 
Equal to 100% 
of Base sum 
insured 
(India only) 
Not Covered Not 
Covered 
Equal to 100% of 
Base sum insured 
===PAGE 65===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai – 400 059. UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 66 
Section Plans Optima 
Suraksha Optima Secure Optima Super Secure 
Optima 
Secure 
Global 
Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus 
Optima 
Select 
Optima 
Lite 
Optima Secure 
+ 
2.6 Automatic Restore 
Benefit 
Equal to 100% of 
Base sum insured 
Equal to 100% of 
Base sum insured 
Equal to 100% of Base 
sum insured 
Equal to 
100% of 
Base sum 
insured 
(India only) 
Equal to 100% 
of Base sum 
insured 
(India only) 
Unlimited 
times 
Unlimited 
times Unlimited times 
2.7 
Aggregate 
Deductible# 
(Optional) 
10K/25K/ 50K /1L 
/2L /3L /5L /10L 
/20L /25L 
10K/25K/ 50K /1L 
/2L /3L /5L /10L 
/20L /25L 
10K/25K/ 50K /1L /2L /3L 
/5L /10L /20L /25L 
10K/25K/ 
50K /1L /2L 
/3L /5L /10L 
/20L /25L 
(India only) 
10K/25K/ 50K 
/1L /2L /3L /5L 
/10L /20L /25L 
(India only) 
10K/25K/ 
50K /1L /2L 
/3L /5L /10L 
10K/ 25K/ 
50K 
10K/25K/ 50K /1L 
/2L /3L /5L /10L 
/20L /25L 
2.8 E-Opinion for Critical 
Illness In India In India Global Global Global Not Covered In India In India 
2.9 
Global Health Cover 
(Emergency 
Treatments Only) 
Not Covered Not Covered Not Covered 
Covered 
(Outside 
India only) 
Not Covered Not Covered Not 
Covered Not Covered 
2.10 
Global Health Cover 
(Emergency & 
Planned Treatments) 
Not Covered Not Covered Not Covered Not Covered 
Covered 
(Outside India 
only) 
Not Covered Not 
Covered Not Covered 
===PAGE 66===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai – 400 059. UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 67 
Section Plans Optima 
Suraksha Optima Secure Optima Super Secure 
Optima 
Secure 
Global 
Optima 
Secure 
Global Plus 
Optima 
Select 
Optima 
Lite 
Optima Secure 
+ 
2.11 Overseas Travel 
Secure (Optional) Not Covered Not Covered Not Covered 
Covered 
upto sum 
insured 
(Outside 
India only) 
Covered upto 
sum insured 
(Outside India 
only) 
Not Covered Not 
Covered Not Covered 
2.12 
PED wait period 
modification 
(Optional) 
1 year / 2 year 1 year / 2 year 1 year / 2 year 1 year / 2 
year 1 year / 2 year 1 year / 2 
year 
1 year / 2 
year 1 year / 2 year 
2.13 Modification of Room 
Rent (Optional) Not Covered Upto Single Private 
room Upto Single Private room Not Covered Not Covered 
At Actuals 
OR Shared 
room 
Not 
Covered 
Upto Single 
Private room  
2.17 Infinite Benefit Not Covered Not Covered 
Optional 
(Bonus of 100% of the 
Base Sum Insured post 
every policy year) 
Not Covered Not Covered Not Covered Not 
Covered 
Bonus of 100% of 
the Base Sum 
Insured post every 
policy year 
  
===PAGE 67===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai – 400 059. UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 68 
3 
Preventive Health Check-up (India only) [This is an optional cover under Optima Select plan and an inbuilt cover in all other plans] 
Base Sum Insured 5 Lakhs 7.5 Lakhs 10 Lakhs 15 Lakhs 20 & 25 Lakhs 50 & 75 
Lakhs 
100 & 200 
Lakhs 
Individual Policy** 1,500 1,500 2,000 4,000 5,000 5,000 8,000 
Floater Policy** 2,500 2,500 5,000 8,000 10,000 10,000 15,000 
 
 
Key to read above table 
a. ‘Covered’ means that particular benefit is an inbuilt feature in that particular plan and the premium of such benefits are included in the premium of 
the respective Plan. 
b. ‘Not Covered’ means that particular benefit is NOT available either as an inbuilt feature or as an optional feature in that particular plan 
c. ‘Optional’ means that particular benefit is NOT an inbuilt feature BUT can be opted by the Proposer/Policyholder either at inception or at renewal 
subject to company’s discretion. ‘PED wait period modification’ optional cover is allowed to be opted at channel level only. Individual customers will 
not be able to opt for the same. 
Notes: 
a. Preventive Health Check-up benefit will not be available under the policy if Aggregate Deductible of INR 5 Lakhs is in force. 
b. Preventive Health Check-up, Secure Benefit, Cumulative Bonus / Plus Benefit / Infinite Benefit, Automatic Restore Benefit, Daily Cash for Shared 
Room and Unlimited Restore (Add-on) benefits will not be available under the policy if Aggregate Deductible of INR 10 Lakhs or more is in force. 
c. **For Individual policy sum insured and limits mentioned in the table are applicable on per Insured Person per Policy Year basis and for Family 
Floater policy sum insured and limits apply on per policy per Policy Year basis 
d. ^Claims shall be payable as per geography mentioned in the above table unless explicitly stated otherwise in a specific cover. 
e. # Aggregate Deductible if opted, shall apply only for claims arising in India. However, a Per Claim Deductible of Rs. 10,000 will apply separately 
for each and every claim arising out of India in Global plans 
===PAGE 68===
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
Policy Wording 
my: Optima Secure  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146 CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 6th Floor, Leela Business Park, Andheri-Kurla Road, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai – 400 059. UIN: my: Optima Secure - HDFHLIP26058V082526 
 69 
f. 5L / 10L Deductible can only be opted with Base Sum Insured >= 25 L 
g. 20L / 25L Deductible can only be opted with Base Sum Insured >= 50 L 
h. Kindly read this document in conjunction with your Policy Schedule for in-depth clarity 
Add on – Covers: 
‘my: Optima Secure’ offers following Add on Covers: 
1. my: health Critical Illness Add On: Provides comprehensive coverage by offering a Lumpsum payout on diagnosis of any of the l isted 51 critical 
Illnesses. Sum Insured options range from Rs. 100,000 to Rs. 500,00,000 in multiples of Rs. 100,000 
2. my: health Hospital Cash Benefit Add On: Per day hospital cash benefit for each continuous and completed 24 hours of hospitalization. Per day Sum 
Insured options of Rs. 500/ 1000/ 1500 / 2000/ 2500 / 3000 / 5000/ 7500/ 10,000 are available. 
3. lndividual Personal Accident Rider: Provides Lumpsum pay out in case of Accidental Death, Permanent Total Disablement and Per manent Partial 
Disablement. Sum Insured shall be 5 (five) times the Sum Insured of Base Plan up to a maximum of Rs. 1 Crore 
4. Unlimited Restore (Add on): Provides unlimited restoration in a Policy Year. 
5. Optima Wellbeing (Add on): Covers expenses for various outpatient benefits. 
6. ABCD Chronic Care: Covers hospitalization expenses for Asthma, Blood pressure, Cholesterol and Diabetes just after 30 days of waiting period. 
7. Limitless: Specified number of claims of infinite value shall be payable in the lifetime of the policy. For claims made in India only. 
8. Parenthood: Covers Maternity Expenses, Embryo freezing costs and IVF treatments post waiting period of 2 years. 
Notes: 
For in depth details on terms and conditions applicable to add-ons, Kindly refer to the Prospectus & Policy wording documents of the respective add-
on available under downloads section on our website. 
Coverage and Sum Insured offered under the add-on’s are subject to declaration in proposal forms and internal underwriting guidelines. 